---
layout: posts
title: "cemetery"
date: 2022-11-28
permalink: /posts/22-11-28-cemetery/
summary: "Stretches out infinitely in every direction."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 348
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
Big cities are running out of space for the dead. Or the living - depends on how you look at it. Soon enough cemeteries might be the only green space left for the oxygen-deprived urbanites. It's only logical - the number of people who've lived and died always grows, and that fact will never change. At this rate, it wouldn't be surprising if the average surface area of the earth granted to a dead person is more than the one allowed to a living person one day. The land of the dead keeps expanding, and the space left for the living keeps shrinking.

And that's how it feels - getting older. Some days.

Surrounding me is a cemetery. It stretches out infinitely in every direction. The outline of tombs is the last thing on the horizon. Love, care, trust, respect, admiration, comfort, warmth, familiarity, shared history, shared dreams - misplaced and lost. Most buried and grieved for, in little bumps marked with a simple sign. Some modest but beloved, frequently visited and decorated with fresh flowers. A few glorified with mausoleums, statues following you with their irisless eyes as you walk past them, rusty, eerie, dignified and imposing. Others still waiting for their holes to be dug out, piled up rotting carcasses on the ground, too ugly to be tended to just yet, stinking up the place. Countless graves, every way I look, as far as the eye can see. It's too crowded. It's too many. I can't remember a time when I wasn't mourning. I can't remember not being afraid. You can't swing a dick around here without bumping into the ghosts of the past, old wounds, disfiguring traumas, emotional baggage. I'm running out of interactions that are not triggers. I have more scars than unbroken flesh. I'm running out of space. And as one tends to be reminded as one walks amongst graves, I'm running out of time. I gotta get out of here. I need fresh grounds to walk. But I don't know how. Because every step I take adds another acre to the cemetery.
