---
layout: posts
title: "hours"
date: 2022-07-24
permalink: /posts/22-07-24-hours/
summary: "Four hours before nighttime."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 420
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
The argument between me and myself: "You use work as an excuse for not doing something to better your life, but even on a day that you don't have to work, you do nothing."

From Monday to Friday, week after week, between the time I wake up and come back home after working and grabbing a quick dinner, I spend thirteen hours. Out of that thirteen hours, only about three are spent on things I also do when I don't have to work. That leaves ten hours per day. Five days out of seven, ten hours out of twenty-four, I spend to make a living. On a day off work, out of the same thirteen hours, I spend about three for extra sleep, four on my morning routine and meals without rushing, and at least two for maintaining my house and my own body at a bare minimum level of acceptable for someone my age and status, as the idea of paying other people to do those things is simply laughable. That leaves me four hours before it's nighttime. I kill four hours by doing things at an extra slow pace to enjoy them, I sit in the sun, of which I'm deprived when I'm in the office, I listen to music and sing along, I dance, I write, I smoke, I masturbate, I lie in my bed and look at the ceiling, thinking. I go over the occurrences in my life and analyze them. I have conversations in my head about things that happened, things that could happen and things that I wish would happen but if they happened, I'd be perfectly graceful and turn them down because they simply wouldn't be right for me. I entertain myself thinking I could be that strong and mature and perfect. Because why not. It's my own fucking four hours. And because I'm so tired of being told where to be and what to do at what time for most of my waking hours, simply for being a human being on this planet who needs things to stay alive. Things like a roof over my head and food. Or all the other things I need to unwind after doing what I'm obligated to do, things that I wouldn't even need if it wasn't for the fact that I have to fit all my anatomical, social, and emotional needs into half the time I'm given.

Supposedly the most intelligent species on the planet, and this is the life we've built for ourselves.
