---
layout: posts
title: "box"
date: 2022-08-16
permalink: /posts/22-08-16-box/
summary: "Been put away in boxes all my life."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 811
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
I'm quite certain that once again, I'm in a box. There's a label on it and everything. I don't know what the label says, but I can hear the echo, feel the restriction of movement, the dismissal of anything I do or say that doesn't match the label, and the waves of comfort emanating from the person who decided that I belong there. I'm neatly tucked in and stoved away into a perfectly fitting gap among other boxes with other labels, only to be taken out when the occasion calls for it. I know this to be the case, because I've been put away in boxes all my life. And although the labels have changed - namely "the sweet wife", "the feisty slut", "the sugar mommy", "the helpless weight around my neck" - the dreadfully familiar feeling hasn't.

In the beginning, there were no walls. Nothing we did felt like anything we did before, even if we did the exact same things, which didn't happen often. Every experience was unique, every encounter memorable. The possibilities of who I could be to them, and who they could be to me, felt endless. The freshness was exhilarating. Jitters and all - I felt like a teenager, even more so than when I actually was a teenager. But it was also overwhelming, and the reality of my stamina not being as limitless as a teenager's eventually caught up with me. All I meant to do was to leave the door open for the possibility of them being more than a phase. Put in a little bit more faith, see if there's room for that. Some connections, after all, do belong in boxes, under certain circumstances. But others demand room to breathe, to evolve, and with time, to become what they're meant to become - may that be a grand love, a life-long friend, an old flame that makes us wonder when we've drifted apart, someone who shows up and makes us realize something we really needed to realize and disappear, a meaningful relationship in any shape or form that never stops challenging us, or someone who's no longer around but that we still feel gratitude for the beautiful memories they've given us. Regardless, I wanted to know.

Well, it didn't go well. My application for appeal was denied, to say the very least. There didn't seem to be any room for my other facets. It saddened me to be labeled and limited so early on, and once again, to not be given the choice of letting this connection become what it could become. Not only was I predestined to be an insignificant anecdote, but so was the whole affair now.

Thus my choices were reduced to giving up there and then, or trying their way, which didn't fit me quite as much as it fitted them. If only I wasn't a sucker for the road less traveled. Or maybe just a sucker. It shouldn't come as much as a surprise to me that people with a my-way-or-the-highway attitude also tend to be the ones who look at an empty space in their life with a certain shape and go, "You know who would be perfect for this space?" So here I am. The one place I didn't want to be. Who I am, what I do, what I say only matters if it fits the bill now. If not, it's handled, ignored, or gets shut down when it disrupts the recipe too much. No more variety, no more imagination, no more effort.

It almost doesn't matter how big the space is, what the other side of the wall looks like, or whether I wanna be there. Walls are walls. I can't know that they're there. If I do, I need to break free, no matter the consequences. And as someone who's vanished behind a pile of rubble time after time, not unlike a wild animal, as innocent bystanders stare at the scene I left behind with a startled and puzzled look on their faces, I don't do well in preservation, no matter how well intended. First I get a little antsy, then before you know it, I'm a huge fucking problem.

I wrecked a lucrative career, set a perfectly comfortable and prestigious life on fire, broke my parents' hearts among others, traveled halfway around the world, had my ass handed over to me, walked this earth as a zombie for the better half of a year, made myself into a person who no longer fits in the part of the world where she was born, nor where she resides, until one day I looked at a teeny tiny bit of the universe and said, "This bit is me." I did not go through all that so I can meekly walk into another box.

So let me out. Or I'll find my own way out.
