---
layout: posts
title: "mermaid"
date: 2022-05-28
permalink: /posts/22-05-28-mermaid/
summary: "To reveal only the impressive, the charming, the sweet."
collection: coda
wrdcount_original: 517
wrdcount_quote: 6
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 7
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
Everything in the room is in shades of blue and gray. It's perpetually the hour before dawn. In this light she can't make her features in the mirror. She's searching for something in her image, but the image keeps turning away.

Her pulse has been weak and erratic for days. Her sleep uneasy, fragile. <span class="annotated" data-note="''Your Fire'' by Parov Stelar, Shine (2007)">So long have been sleeping violently.</span> Seemingly composed but pulled in all directions by tight strings inside her chest.

It started out small. A moment of self-doubt. A passing frame of herself seen by an outside observer. Then the growing restlessness, the nagging suspicion that something awful is about to happen.

Why? What is it? Isn't it all good? Hasn't it been a while since the last time happiness was this effortless? What's missing? What doesn't add up? What's lurking at the back of your mind? What's the question that so urgently demands your attention, and the answer that keeps slipping away? What is this catastrophe that you can sense, almost smell, like a mountaineer smelling the avalanche, but can't see on the horizon?

The wind is picking up. Thoughts swirling too fast. Down the drain before she can get a good look, followed by another. Instead of piling up to heaps of glimmering recollection, the vivid memories and the profound realizations that come in flashes from the past, dissolve down as if soaked with acid. It's all futile. It can't be helped. What's eating you?

You've learned it pretty well, haven't you, to reveal only the impressive, the charming, the sweet. You've had a lifetime to master the act of putting only the tip of the iceberg on display, all shimmery and baby blue. "I'll get to that stuff later," you say. "No rush." Only when you looked at someone as they said they were in love with you, and saw the eyes of one who was in love with somebody else, had you realized your mistake. It was too late. Or worse. They would catch a glimpse of the abyss, and turn away towards the light. Before you knew it, it would all turn to dust, leaving the chasms even deeper than they had found.

But now that the rest of the picture is starting to leak, giving hints of what's to come, she sees that she's gonna have to do things differently this time. So now she speaks. Now she warns. Eyes wide with fear, the sun is fading, the chill is sinking in, "get help" she says, because her time at the surface is coming to an end. To her, the terror is quite real, but when they look that way, they see the dusk, nothing more.

Still, somehow, you got an audience. So now you've got a choice. Are you gonna pull this one down? Just so you can show the depths, and for once, you'd have a witness to your existence, and hope against hope that maybe you wouldn't have to be the only resident of these ruins? Or are you gonna let him swim away, untouched, and delighted, and excited to tell the story of how he'd seen a mermaid once?
