---
layout: posts
title: "marketed"
date: 2022-10-11
permalink: /posts/22-10-11-marketed/
summary: "Playing against an opponent who wrote the rules of the game."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 974
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 45
wrdcount_capnotes: 31
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
<span class="annotated" data-note="[Karanlıkta yanabilirim / Boşlukta durabilirim / Düşmem ben, kanatlarım var ruhumda / Geldiğim gibi gidebilirim / Aşktan vazgeçebilirim / Zincir yok ki benim boynumda] ''Kanatlarım Var Ruhumda'' by Nil Karaibrahimgil, 2014.">I can burn bright in the darkness  
I can suspend in the emptiness  
I won't fall  
I have wings on my soul  
I can leave the way I came  
I can walk away from love  
No chain around my neck  
I am bound to none</span>  

I've been had. In fact, I'm convinced we've all been had. When the idea of belonging in the house with your children stopped selling, when we finally thought of making use of this mass in our skulls for more house management, and our bodies for more than childbearing, they finally rolled their eyes and said "Fine, come see where I work." We all know where that led.

Once we adapted to the ridiculous double standard that is now known as a fashion sense called "business smart", and learned how to handle the everyday casual groping, objectifying, and undermining, we found ourselves playing a game whose rules were established generations ago, against an opponent who wrote those rules themselves, to accommodate *their* nature, and who's had plenty of time to master the game. Deprived of any kind of acknowledgment and desperate even for a modicum of appreciation, we didn't even stop to think, and gladly accepted when we were praised not based on our merit, but on how much we could imitate men: Tough, they said, for a woman who could take her licking without batting an eye. Professional, if she showed no emotion or care for the people with whom she worked. Badass, if she could clock in inhumane hours to get the job done, regardless of the personal cost.

And we ate it up. That image of the chick in high heels marching to work wearing a pantsuit and a bitch face with coffee in hand became the image of success and power for females all over the world. Best marketed product of the century. We all wanted to be that chick, and have everything that came with that picture - things that extended well beyond career and financial independence: She doesn't let anything distract her from her goals. She prioritizes herself. She gets bored when she gets too much affection. She can walk away from love. She can have sex like a man. She can do it all, whatever "all" means.

Does it work for you? Do you benefit from the way things changed? How about this - do you think you benefit from it as much as the ones who marketed this idea to you? Or did we play right into their hand and call it empowerment? Because now, if you can't make that dude who made you into one more number in his list into one more number in *your* list, if you got attached, if you found the decision to cut him off instead of tolerating his increasingly dismissing behavior difficult, it's your fault and you're weak. It doesn't matter if the next one in line is any better - if you don't ghost today, you're ghosted tomorrow. If you care about someone, a friend, a romantic interest, a sexual partner, or a colleague, you're boring and clingy, you're unprofessional, or you don't respect people's boundaries. If you try to build something that lasts outside of working hours you're old-fashioned. If you have compassion and stick around for someone who's going through something and acting out, you're too soft to make difficult decisions. You need to go get some boundaries girl, you have no respect for yourself. You gotta look out for yourself. Otherwise, you've failed to catch the wave of feminism. You've let your generation down. You've let your entire sex down. You have options now, so if you're still taking shit, that's on you. But how did we end up having to stop being emotional when we started from a point when we were tired of pretending that we're not intellectual? Not to mention, if I keep discarding people like paper bags and yell "Next!", will there always be a next? I'm not entirely convinced that the entities who want me to buy into the image of that power chick can guarantee that I won't end up screwed. That hasn't exactly been my experience with people eager to sell me stuff.

Wouldn't true equality be not having to choose at all? Say, instead of choosing between a life full of excitement that can only be achieved by not being tied down, but almost doomed to curdle into bitterness, and one that is less likely to lead to being alone in the end but riddled with mediocrities? If it's a career and financial independence that gets me there, why can't I throw away this model when it gets tiresome, fully assured that I can afford a better one each decade? If it's being an interesting, well-rounded person that catches the attention now rather than youth and beauty, why do I seem to fall lower and lower in the food chain as years go by past the threshold of a quarter of a century? Where is the part of the menu where *I'm* listed under "not a looker but makes me laugh," "old but powerful," "chubby but sweet?" When do I get to be unapologetic about being downright average, or entitled without the redeeming qualities of being hot? Where is my contingency plan to settle down with a nice guy when I'm middle-aged and tired after making the most of my adulthood years, instead of becoming a cautionary tale?

So yeah, sure, you can do it all, you can get that promotion, be curvy and sexy, have casual sex, kick that guy's sorry ass to the curb, choose career over love, follow your dreams, be freaking wonder woman - today. And what about when you're older, saggier, and have zero clue about how to tolerate or accommodate a flaw in another human being? What if you can't adapt, if you can't handle what you dish out? Well, that's a problem for the next generation's marketing department. That is if they consider you a target demographic that is worth targeting at all. So you better hope that career pans out, girl.
