---
layout: posts
title: "(dis)enchant"
date: 2022-12-09
permalink: /posts/22-12-09-disenchant/
summary: "To look in the mirror and flinch at your wretchedness."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 1209
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
Time to be disenchanted, once again. Time to see the sky, the moon, the trees, the benches, the houses, the streets from the lens of the memories, and feel the pain. Time to default to hurting each second you have to spare, and put one foot in front of the other and get through each moment, each minute, each day. Time to eat, sleep, inhale and exhale. Time to reach for every tool in your shed, to let it out, to wallow but not victimize, to make sense but not villainize, to remember that this too shall pass, and that there's no plot, there's no scheme, there's no one out to get you. That despite the sense of emergency, there's no fire, despite the sense of crime, there's no murderer. And yet, time to fight with all your might to not go back, either. Doesn't make much sense, does it. Time to clear out your schedule to safely fly off the handle, ruminate, and react. Time to wonder what the hell all that was about, what it was all for. Time to read, write, sing, live and breathe anything that could help you get it out, or guide you through, or give you any idea of how to survive this. Time to repeat to yourself that night is darkest before dawn, and that spring will arrive yet again, and all the other clichés. Time to hold on to their promises for your dear life even though they do very little to console, when you feel, to your aching bones, hollow. Time to distract yourself from your spinning mind with anything you can find, obsess over small, insignificant, made-up tasks, welcome going to work, dread coming back home. Time to look in the mirror, flinch at your wretchedness, wonder if it's time for some compassion, wonder if it's time yet, and if not, try again tomorrow. Time to wrap your arms around your own shoulders, double down on your legs, and cry it out until your face is in a pool of your tears. Time to have the same imaginary conversation in your head over and over again, each time playing out differently, with a different tone each time, raging, fuming, cold, courteous, graceful, vulnerable, imploring, indifferent, vicious, magnanimous. And sometimes not different at all, just repeat, hoping that it'll be rehearsed well enough, have sunk in firmly enough for you to stand your ground, if it ever actually happens. Time to accept that it might never happen. And that even if it does, it would only happen when you no longer need or care about it, and not a minute earlier. Because any earlier, and your mind would go blank, your knees weak, and your resolve out the window. Infuriating, isn't it. Time to wonder what they're doing, who they're with, if they miss you, they probably don't, and maybe this time remind yourself quickly enough not to go down that road, that it doesn't help, that it doesn't matter, hopefully quickly enough this time before you're too far gone down the rabbit hole. Time to check your messages again, try not to count the hours, the days, the weeks, then fail, then tell yourself that it's for the best anyway, easier to break it off when they're not contacting you. That it's rough now but you'll be better off in the long term. That if it got this bad, it can only get worse, that you can endure this now and get out with some of your dignity intact, or wait till the pit you've fallen into is much too deep to climb out. You know all that, so how come it doesn't help. Time to face the days when nothing works and it's all a haze of numbness, lethargy, and overall crappiness. When people reach out and it seems more than you can afford to humor them, or wash the dishes, or even take a shower. When the house could be on fire and you'd still rather bingewatch series. And the occasional instances that follow in which you're possessed by an unholy cheerfulness. Time to think you're starting to feel slightly better, that it's getting a little easier, that you're adjusting to the new normal, just to have the wind knocked out of you with no warning, be swept away by a wave of longing, rendered utterly helpless, and fall apart. Time to ignore all the warnings, walk right into all the traps, fail to reason with yourself, over and over again. Time to watch the storm pass, then realize that once more it's too late to get enough sleep. Time to force sleep, but what to think, which way to turn for some peace. Time to find a new happy place to go when you close your eyes. You can't go there anymore, not even in your dreams, because it's time to cut the cord and walk away. Time to get back up and have another cigarette, three more times, before you finally doze off. Time to wake up, exhausted already, remember before you even open your eyes, feel the pain, and repeat. All of it. And hope that life will keep happening and fill the void, time will keep flowing and wash away the remains, this nightmare of incessant pain will eventually be over and you'll look at the sky, the moon, the trees, the benches, the houses, the streets one day, and not remember anything in particular. At least nothing that reminds you that everything you've learned about this person is irrelevant to you now, the repeated realization of which stings like a splinter that you keep forgetting you have. At least not every five minutes. Or half an hour. Maybe a few hours will go by one day without hurting. And finally, a whole day. Time to hope that you'll get there one day, the absolute *Disenchantment*, the sweet relief of indifference, and none of this will matter. If you just make it through this, you'll get to see them for who they are, and the world for what it is, no hard feelings. Time to forgive but not forget the lesson. Time to take your time, but not too much time, shut life out, but not all at once, and not for so long that those who're still around give up on you. And eventually, it'll be time to crack a joke when you least expect. You'll be bored again one day, and wonder what it was that you used to do to pass all that time. You'll find, to your surprise, that grief had packed its bags and left, leaving all that space for new life. Be prepared to feel a little scared, not knowing how to fill it. You might even miss it, having grown accustomed to its demanding presence, day in, day out. You'll put down the burden. You'll find new comfort. You'll make lists and plans and take trips and get excited again. You'll fuss over *the trivial, the mundane, the petty* again. You can't rush it, but you can outlast it. One day, you'll draw a free breath, and say you're OK. And as improbable as it seems now, maybe, you'll even be enchanted again, one day.
