---
layout: posts
title: "water"
date: 2022-06-01
permalink: /posts/22-06-01-water/
summary: "My pilgrimage into the magical land called the Existence Beyond Me."
collection: coda
wrdcount_original: 2014
wrdcount_quote: 53
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 18
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
<span class="text-body-quote">"Hell is other people."</span> <span class="text-body-credit">Jean-Paul Sartre</span>

I dated this boy in college. Everyone, including us, assumed we'd end up together. And we were going to - until we didn't. You see, it was my first codependent relationship. He filled a hole I'd felt my entire life, and vice versa. We indulged each other in every way one could indulge another, and one of the ways we did that was by complaining. For the first time in my life, I could complain about anything I wanted, as much as I wanted, without anyone putting me down for being too negative. Finally, I was free and someone understood me. People sucked. Life was unfair. He was the one good thing.

<span class="text-body-quote">"Give me liberty, or give me death."</span> <span class="text-body-credit">Patrick Henry</span>

Fast forward 4 years. I can't walk down the street without someone droning on and on by my side about how crappy the asphalt work is, and how the government keeps reasphalting the streets to launder the money they stole from people. He's right of course, but I don't want to think about that. I want to look up to the sky. I see planes passing by and wonder where they're going. I wish I was on them. I yearn to be gone. It no longer feels like all I'll ever need is right there with me. I don't know where these urges come from, and I feel guilty. I feel guilty for no longer being content with having someone I can complain with. There seems to be so much more to do in life, and something tells me that I'm running out of time before the door to that life closes on me and I'm trapped on the other side, shackled down with a ring on my finger and two babies hanging down my breasts.

<span class="text-body-quote">"Θα σου γαμήσω το χωριό. (I fuck your village.)"</span> <span class="text-body-credit">Grace and Frankie</span><span class="annotated" data-note="[Tha sou gamíso to chorió.] From season 1, episode 9, ''The Invitation'', 2015.">*</span>

Fast forward 5 years. My decision to ask for more from life has me leading an entirely self-absorbed existence, ignoring the needs of anyone unfortunate enough to have their life entangled with mine. My mom has given up on trying to teach me empathy, my sister's slapped me with the labels apolitical & socially retarded and moved on, and my old friends don't bother with me anymore, because they're familiar with my history of disappearing on them as soon as I find my next pursuit of salvation in the form of another male body. That's ok though, I found new ones. I'm selling like hotcakes. With my new-found independence, professional confidence, and my extended post-break-up freedom along with its ultimate perk, the unabashed promiscuity - which I find, to my glee, fits me like a glove - I'm more spoiled than ever.

I am, however, still marveling at my choices that led me to stay with an abusive man, a.k.a. *The Psycho*, for 4 years, as he made it his mission to control, intimidate, and insult me until my sense of individuality was crushed into a fine powder. How did he get me to agree to that? The mystery of that particularly self-sabotaging decision keeps bugging me, trailing along its sidekick, the fear, almost a phobia, that I'll end up right back in that place again one day. In fact, I haven't even figured out why I left the one before him, a.k.a. *The Husband-to-be-until-he-wasn't*. To make matters worse, something is still missing. Now that I finally declared my independence from my parents and anyone else seeking control over my choices, doing anything and everything and anyone I feel like, and devouring life, I should finally be satisfied.

<span class="text-body-quote">"Ninguém solta a mão de ninguém."</span> <span class="text-body-credit">Brazilian protest slogan</span>

Then I feel the warmth of light coming from a direction to which I turned my back long ago. Other people, screaming at the authorities with a rage that they've been bottling up for god knows how long - actually, everybody knew for exactly how long - that they've had enough. Suddenly I realize - I haven't been above them, I've been a coward. I'm not indifferent, I'm uninformed. And when you don't actively choose the information you put in your head, it creates an opportunity for someone else to choose for you. The gap in your knowledge doesn't simply stay a vacuum, it becomes the hunting ground for those who want to turn it into another copy of their default.

So I join the people in the street. I put on a mask, a helmet, my sneakers, my swimming goggles, and I run. And everything my mom and sister have been yapping about - empathy, kindness, human connection, social cooperation, the rest of the country, the rest of humanity - rapidly enters my field of vision, pours through the freshly opened dam gates, and overwhelms me. I am changed forever - I no longer just consume, I savor. I stop filling all my time with activities, I take time to reflect. I'm no longer terrified of being alone with myself, because I start to like who I'm becoming. And there always seems to be something to do - I read, I listen, I take walks, I watch movies about nothing in particular, but all about life. I talk to people, I look up anything new I hear about, I make connections between things I find out, I take a chance on new things, I draw, I sing, I dance, I travel, and more than anything else - I love. And during my pilgrimage into this new magical land I call the existence beyond me, I find a commencement speech, at the heart of which lies a simple idea - and I know, almost instantly, that I want to live the rest of my life by that idea.

<span class="text-body-quote">"This is water."</span> <span class="text-body-credit">David Foster Wallace</span>

A choice so obvious, yet hidden in plain sight: Making a conscious decision, through each moment of coexistence with the other residents of the world, to remember that on the other side of my encounters, there are other individuals, just like me, who have the exact same interaction and process it within a set of circumstances of which I don't have a clue. Despite what my senses tell me, that I am not in the center of all that I experience. It's stunning how all the books and education in the world can still fail to stop us in our tracks and force us to take control of our own perception and reaction, unless we actively, painfully, and repeatedly choose to do so.

This isn't a lecture on love and compassion. The speech doesn't even argue with the standing fact that some people are monumental pricks and they're exactly as entitled as they seem. The point is to question what your senses tell you, and consider, that maybe what you perceive, in the context of your thoughts and feelings, is only a part of reality. Maybe it's a distorted version of it. Maybe it's not true at all. The point, simply put, is to give yourself the choice to not assume. A choice as abundant as water, and just as imperceptible, when you spend your life in it, day in, day out.

Loaded with the numerous past experiences that put me in the exact same position as basically everyone I'd ever judged mercilessly, I didn't take long to extrapolate this idea to an empathy-centered principle of living. Given the right set of circumstances, anyone, including myself, could be a monumental prick. The question is, what happens when I'm the prick?

Thus started my strive towards modesty. Almost a decade later, I am where I set out to be. Granted, it wasn't easy. It took practice. I had to go back to the speech every few years to adjust my course. I had to remind myself over and over again. But I've done it. I've finally internalized the idea. There is no being who did me so wrong that I refuse to even consider what they must've gone through. You'd think that I'd at least judge people for passing judgments, but having been in their shoes, those are the ones I have the most empathy for. I tune into the people around me so deeply that when their mood changes I sense it as easily as if the wind turned around. I read and watch anything on mechanisms of the mind, schools of thought, different perspectives, and mental health that I can get my hands on. I've collected so much, been through so much, and analyzed every moment of my at-times-miserable existence in such excruciating detail, soon enough I've started seeing patterns, forming ideas, and devising my own methods. Tried with time, fire, and numerous storms, I've built my home base brick by brick.

<span class="text-body-quote">"You're beautiful."</span> <span class="text-body-credit">James Blunt</span>

No you're not. Fuck you James Blunt and your bitch ass face, for unleashing this trend on us. People are not beautiful or valuable by default. They're an army of cunts and idiots. They can be proudly uneducated, unapologetic dicks, who, given the chance, will frustrate and infuriate the will to live right out of you. *The Husband-to-be-until-he-wasn't* got it right, but not all of it. Endlessly complaining about the obvious mass idiocy is one way to go, but it's a dead end. I don't want to be one of those self-proclaimed intellectuals standing around in a room masturbating to each others' validation. The *I'm beautiful crowd* thinks they got it all figured out, but they just want all the validation with none of the work, which doesn't improve things any more than the next self-serving trend. What you end up with is constantly finding yourself talking to a person who's so obviously in love with themselves that they believe they deserve your infinite attention but you can't, for the life of you, figure out why. Self-worth is not a given, it's earned. If you lead your life with a notion that people try their best, build an understanding of what we owe to each other, and invest wisely, you might just be able to piece together fractions of recognition into a self-worth, even if you started out with none of it. If you've been the life of enough parties, given enough good advice, made enough people laugh, made enough strangers smile, achieved excellence enough times, saved enough people out of rough spots, given enough orgasms, and earned enough friends' trust, you might just be able to put some of the ego-boost  aside to keep you afloat on rainy days. And gradually, you might even start being kinder to yourself, inch your way through the gruesome battlefield of clashing egos, and eventually, hopefully, one day stand up for yourself leaning on the overwhelming evidence that you're worth something.

<span class="text-body-quote">"Can I sleep in your brain?"</span> <span class="text-body-credit">Ezra Furman</span><span class="annotated" data-note="From the album ''Perpetual Motion People'', 2015.">*</span>

But I overdid it, like with most things I do. I got too insightful and started being pigeonholed as a wise owl. People started forgetting that I needed care, affection, advice, and fun too. They were amused for a while, then they moved on. The intuition I had for knowing the right time to check on others seemed to lack in them when I needed it. People kept letting me down. Not to mention, the solution-seeking crowd and my inflamed self-importance that they fed got in the way of me figuring out my own shit. Day after day, I thought about what I could do for others, losing sight of my own dumpster fire of life, and not even realizing that I've been procrastinating on my own problems. And when they got through the rough patch and ran for the hills, I was left with no one to call me up for good times. Only the bad. So now I'm at a crossroads - I can dwell in martyrdom and become my mother, or I can stop waiting for others to take care of me and save myself, by myself. I can keep trying to date someone I can count on, someone like my father, or I can be like my father. The choice is clear, really, I just can't be bothered.

But it's better to see the pattern sooner rather than later, I suppose. Now I gotta find myself a me, or better yet, a village of mes. Funny, never even realized that I've been turning myself into the person that I wish was here for me.

<span class="text-body-quote">"Oh, let it go, and now I must pray…  
Let's pray."</span> <span class="text-body-credit">— Tangelo</span><span class="annotated" data-note="From the Red Hot Chili Peppers album ''Unlimited Love'', 2022.">*</span>

