---
layout: posts
title: "solstice"
date: 2023-05-27
permalink: /posts/23-05-27-solstice/
summary: "Pack it onto the passing Aegean breeze."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 1080
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
I was wrapping up my pre-bed chainsmoking portion of the evening which I'd decided to have in the front yard to get some night air and spend time with the plants. Donned with pajama pants, a hoodie and flipflops, I was carrying the foldable wooden chair inside, its cushion flapping with every step. As I pushed the front door with my free hand, a breeze, accompanied by the whooshing of a whole flock of falling leaves, flew right over my head and into the house. In the blink of an eye I was yanked off my reality and thrown into a frame from my aunt's life, in her beautiful summer house, always blessed with perfect weather, perpetually filled with life and noise, stemming from the red blooded or green life forms alike. It felt like summer, one that I can recognize in this foreign climate. The sun and I are tight these days. It's vitalizing when I stand straight up in its face in need of a quick recharging/bonewarming break, otherwise best appreciated from half shade. Perfection, if the said half shade is provided by greenery. Takes me back to the times I stood on the hills of Prince islands overlooking the Marmara sea. When the yellowing flora and olive trees shed their dry leaves and dust, pack it onto the passing Aegean breeze along with notes of rosemary, oregano, and all their kin, and send it on their way, it reads like a letter that's only meant to be read when it's too late to interfere. It's a dry breeze. I doubt locals enjoy it as much as I do, but to us "desert folk", this is as good as it gets. All that is missing now is a wooden table covered with some fresh linen, whose lacy skirts are held down with clippers over the edges to fight the wind. A breakfast spread and good company, one that collectively understands that olive oil is magic. It reminds me of my roots more than anything else, when I see myself living the height of the good life simply for spending a golden summer afternoon outdoors. With good people and good food, which stays on the table long after everyone's stopped eating, that's how you know the conversation is good. And having the means to put this picture together has less to do with money than occurs to most people. My aunt wasn't a rich lady but she was a rich lady. Yet as glorious as the secret matriarchy she'd built in her household was, it was a lot of work to keep up, and a lot of parties to keep alive and well. Cigarette breaks were precious to her.

Only smokers would understand this - even when it's allowed to smoke indoors, there's a pull towards the outdoors. There's a kind of quirky peace one can find in the solitude among perfect strangers. Smoking at times requires standing still in a place through which everyone else only passes on their way to somewhere else. You get to glance at each other with mutual acknowledgement that you'd rather not talk. It's a cold comfort. And then there's being under the open sky. Tobacco's most essential function is to slow things down and bring them into focus. That's why some people really prepare to create the perfect conditions to enjoy a cigarette. I take after my aunt. I like to get all the work out of the way. I make sure a beverage is ready. Her acquired taste was Turkish coffee in traditional one-sip-sized cups of delicately curved ceramics hand-painted with little flowers. A ritual we had in common, but never shared with each other, was rewarding our respective selves for doing all the dishes, and then sitting down and feeling the peace flowing, while looking around with everything shiny clean. Like aunt, like niece. Or sometimes, in the middle of the night, the only thing that can pull a person out of their warm bed is the temptation of a cigarette on the balcony, where no one will see you because no one will be awake. It'll be calm, it'll be quiet. Life will be, for that moment, suspended, as if by magic. As if you crawled into a pocket in the never-ending flow of time. Wrapped up in a coat over pajamas and a hat in a ridiculous fashion, weirdly cozier than most about anything. That five minutes of silence is sometimes all you need to settle down your spinning mind. Even if not, it'll certainly be the thing to start the process toward an unraveled, quiet mind. Hence the remembrance, of this niece, of her aunt, as she carries the chair inside in the dark, stepping from outside to inside, familiarly satisfied at having stayed up later than everyone else inside. But that's all she had - rare moments carved out of precious time to reflect on her life. It wasn't enough. She needed more than self-medication rituals to cope with her oversized burden. When I wonder whether being dearly loved and remembered so wonderfully is worth self-sacrificing, I think about my aunt, and weigh how lovingly I remember her against how much she suffered.

Did I know what I wanted when I left? No, I was still a kid. I didn't have a clue. So I said I'm going to find out. I'd rather risk unemployment where I don't have a safety net than be comfortable in a place where people don't know what wealth is, or how to enjoy it. I'd rather get sick somewhere I'm not cared for than be healthy where I've got space to enjoy good health. I'd rather be lonely because I'm short on people I can count on if the alternative is to feel like a placeholder for even my oldest friends as they all "become adults", get married, have families, and disappear from my life. I'd rather have my heart broken and be miserable and ugly cry from time to time but feel life in my bones than be moderately content for the rest of my life but never more. I wanted more. What's a little suffering if it's for the sake of freedom. Because, yeah, the loving woman who sacrifices her whole life for her loved ones sure paints a pretty picture, but in the end, she's still dead. I wanna live. 

Then again, it wasn't a snapshot of the subtropics that I've just gone on and on about.
