---
layout: posts
title: "seasons"
date: 2023-03-18
permalink: /posts/23-03-18-seasons/
summary: "It's okay to be blindsided."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 907
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
"Stop fighting your seasons," says the old lady, each syllable of which lets out another puff of smoke through her loosely pursed lips. The said smoke belongs to the cigarette dangling from the corner of her mouth and slowly fills up the space around her face while her right hand is busy holding the palette and the left holding the brush, and she's looking straight at the canvas, painting. "Look at what your generation has achieved. You did all that work to break out of the individual boxes that the ones before you trapped you in, and now you're all walking right into one big prison. I don't get it - do you want to be free or not? Good things are hard to come by, even when you fight like hell for them. Sometimes you just need to shut your pie hole and enjoy. But you keep forcing things to happen on your terms. I don't think it'll get any better than this in your lifetime, sugar."

I decide to go for a walk. I step outside the door and the acoustic aura around me changes immediately. The muffled noises of a household on a chill Saturday are replaced with the outdoor echoes carrying the unmistakable notes of a summer night: Music and lively conversations drifting from the local hangout points of a center-adjacent residential neighborhood. Laughter and effortless fun of old companionship riding the mild breeze. It didn't come easy to me to acquire the skill of nibbling on the energy of the people around me without the sting of feeling excluded. When you stop fighting your seasons, you can appreciate the brief change of air granting you the ability to be delighted by other people's joy and get less annoyed with human error precisely because you intend to keep it short and come right back to your lair perfectly designed to your needs. Back there, the music will follow *your* mood. It will be as loud or as low as you want, no more, no less. There will be no unsolicited human interactions. Lighting will be in the right tones and positioned to your liking and dimmed like you enjoy. You won't have to stop what you're doing and go elsewhere to smoke. You can indulge in whatever you feel like indulging in without witnesses or judgment. And when the time comes, when you recover your strength, you'll go on longer expeditions. You'll venture out further. If you take the seasons as they come, they might lead to a Sunday afternoon on which you walk home from a subway station and the odd looks on people's faces as they pass you by clue you in on how you must look: Your hair spills out of a warm hat but you're also rocking those pilot sunglasses. You have your lightest sundress on but with your warmest jacket over it, khaki, with a fur-lined hood. Your legs are naked under the short skirt of your dress but you're dragging your feet in your hiker boots. Many layers that used to be between them all shoved up in your almost-bursting backpack. It happens. It's São Paulo. You never know the state you'll find yourself in an hour, or in a day, physically or emotionally. You might be stranded under a store's tarp waiting out the rain or you might be walking in the sun losing layer after layer. You might get dragged to a *churrasco* in a stranger's house and hang out with the most random bunch you'll get to discuss life with, or the plans you've been looking forward to all week might fall through in the last minute, leaving you with basically with no choice but to clear out your schedule for some serious pining and fuming. Then comes a random Thursday on which a whim to grab a couple of after-work drinks brings upon the most legendary night you've had in a while. The next day as you battle your hangover to keep your shit together until the end of your shift you realize that it's Friday night and you're looking forward to your home's comfort. You don't even care about other people's plans. Just as you drop all your expectations for validation from others you find yourself in the arms of a cute stranger. Just as you write someone off as a toxic result of an overly individualistic culture they help you back up on your feet. It's understandable to be blindsided. It's fine to be prepared. It's allowed to carry both an umbrella and a pair of sunglasses every day. And a change of underpants - always carry a change of underpants. The mood and the weather in this town can change on you faster than its people. There are times to ride them and there are times to ride them out in hiding. Do not apologize for either. It takes time to discover the benefits of making a choice and sticking with it, no matter how long your internal dialogue continues to argue both sides. Getting old enough to own your choices is worth the wait. As long as you eventually accept the waves as they come, as long as you can learn not to fight them. Because no one's got so much time that they can afford to live in denial, nor to wait around long enough for the universe to make every decision for them. So,

"Mevsimlerine direnmeyi bırak."
