---
layout: posts
title: "master switch"
date: 2023-09-07
permalink: /posts/23-09-07-masterswitch/
summary: "A cup of black tea's worth of cigarette clouds."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 585
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
I came home. And this time, unlike the times before, it fit me like a glove. The smell of battle reached me before I even reached the ground. I didn't fight back. I didn't even try. It's as if a huge boulder, attached to the inner surface of a deep well stretching down all the way to my core, that I had been holding in place with all my might to make way for air, somehow got dislodged, smashed its way to the bottom, and crashed to the ground, sending tremors over my whole being and nailing my center of gravity to this very location on the planet for the foreseeable future. My tongue was untied. I could speak my mother tongue like I'd never left. I embraced the handful of people that I call my own, and we fused with the longing of the entire time we'd spent apart, with all the loneliness and struggle and defeat I suffered in their absence, and all the helplessness they suffered in mine. The fear of whether I'll feel any connection to a child who's my flesh and blood but whom I barely know, went out the window with the autumn winds. The fact that she's the love of my sister's life, who happens to be the love of mine, was all it took to turn me into a running, laughing child along her side. That, and her smile, that is only a more golden version of her mother's, and just as bright. I didn't need to tune in to hear the news of our victories and sufferings, they simply enveloped me through the looks on faces around me. I let the pain and anger of my nation wash me over. I didn't even sweat the stay-positive crap. The self-preservation mechanisms I had cultivated for the better half of a decade dispersed faster than a cup of black tea's worth of cigarette clouds. Just as well - they weren't born here to begin with, nor could they ever survive here. I endlessly pondered and vented over the nightmare that is the fate of my kin. But the grief I was immersed in was a stronger connection to living than the lightness of being, I remembered. The hell with the ill-fitted ambitions and the lovely illusions that, turns out, aren't mine to keep. Beautiful strangers can find someone else to explain the mesmerizing chaos of this land before they cash it in for passion that barely lasts longer than a fruit fly. The full moon and the trees blooming wild-colored flowers can enchant other foreigners for a while. The jitters, discomforts, and the tease of just-out-of-reach dreams will have to wait. I might try my hand at this crazy gamble again one day, who knows. Not a soul could see it coming when I would flip the board and walk away again, thus far. But today, I'm home. I'm standing over the unmarked tombs of my ancestors, ready to join their ranks with a defying grin and a fool's strength. It's true that my loss runs deep. Forfeiting the fruits of my hardship just as they were beginning to mature and taking up brand-new ones is hard to swallow. The challenges of this new uncharted territory could break me. The pressure to overcome what lies ahead is nearly unbearable. And despite all that, this feels right. It feels better than the slight tickle of butterfly dreams. I'm exactly where I'm needed, and exactly where I need to be.
