---
layout: posts
title: "hukukçu"
date: 2023-10-17
permalink: /posts/23-10-17-hukukcu/
summary: "Not just a lawyer."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 393
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
You can be a judge. You can be a lawyer. You can be an activist. You can be a spokesperson. You can be a cultural attaché. You can teach at a university. You can be a lecturer - oh, you would love to be a lecturer. You can write. You can be a columnist. You can host a podcast. You can work at an international law firm. You can work for an international firm that needs a lawyer. You can be a consultant. You can give advice to companies looking to expand their businesses into Brazil, about the best way to do it, culturally, and legally. Someone will end up doing it, and if you do it, maybe it'll be more humane. You can go across the lines and be the voice of the exploited. You can be a union leader. You can be a strong voice of your generation. You can go into politics. You can fight homelessness. You can defend animal rights. You can try to change things. Or you can earn a comfortable living from the way things are. You can be one of those constantly traveling suits - light, rich, and carefree. You can have a house filled with sun and children, and live in a town where everyone knows your name. You have your whole life ahead of you. You have every right, and the skills, and the demand for your skills to go down any of these paths, and many others in between. We live at a time in which the concept of career is permanently under maintenance. We broke it. It was your generation who did it. So it's up to you, really. What do you want? I know you're tired. You've been running and jumping through hoops non-stop for quite some time. I get it if you just wanna sit pretty and make good money for the rest of your days once you reach your plateau. But even this exhaustion won't last forever. Are you even aware that the hardest part of overcoming the obstacles that have fenced you in for most of your life is already behind you? Do you realize that the walls have largely come down already in the face of your determination and focus? You can just step over them and walk on now, if you'd like. Do you dare dream?
