---
layout: posts
title: "naked"
date: 2023-09-23
permalink: /posts/23-09-23-naked/
summary: "Mathilde in the zone."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 503
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
"… no such thing as degrees of vulnerability. Not for me, not if the person already got under my skin. They get to see it all, it's like that performance artist's work, what was her name…" (pulls out her phone, and for a few moments, the only noise in the room is her mutterings and the sound of her fingernails tapping and sliding on her phone's screen, and the audible discomfort of Claudette as she didn't know what to do with herself for this duration)"... yes, found it: Marina Abramović. She gave the audience the power to hurt her without consequences. That's me, when I let someone in, for real. I'd be naked and they could be armed. It's the screening part of the process that I put all my faith in, the part where I decide whether they're gonna hurt me or not. But once they're allowed to come in, they have all the power to hurt me. What can I do, I'm butt naked. It's an absolute state. You can't be more or less naked, you either are, or aren't. I tried to be more careful, less fragile, but it didn't work - it's not for me. I can't connect with people if I'm afraid to be vulnerable. The whole foundation lacks substance when I do, and it always blows up in my face. I just can't do it - I can't half-ass love. I found out the only thing I can control is the decision of who should enter. And to my surprise, I noticed that my judgment over whether someone is basically decent or not, hasn't gotten any better or worse over time. It was always good. It's how much I could hear it, hear my own voice that's gotten better. It used to get drowned out because I chose to believe the claims of the object of my affections, over my own sense. What's changed is how much I dared believe that maybe, I did know better. Turns out, I knew quite a bit."

When Simon was slowly getting out of his afternoon dozing, as he was struggling to keep his eyes open and failing, the only thing that got through and made an impact on his consciousness was the vision of Mathilde, who'd no doubt had one of her magic cigarettes on the side of the cup of tea sitting next to her on the windowsill, and had burst into one of her famous monologues. Arms waving like airport ground crew, facial expressions rolling through her face like a list of emojis, her voice strong, resonating, confident, unwavering, her words unhesitant. There was no doubt: She was in the zone.

"Art is irreplaceable to human existence for many reasons but one is particularly important to me: Sometimes, things are extra beautiful because they're sad, and extra sad because they're beautiful. In that sense, nothing else humans create is capable of capturing the spirit of living."

Mathilde lived fiercely. Simon would go to hell and back for her.
