---
layout: posts
title: "urban soul"
date: 2023-10-23
permalink: /posts/23-10-23-urbsol/
summary: "Buildings for the rich, pavements for the fallen."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 2653
wrdcount_quote: 26
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 23
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
<span class="text-body-quote">"If you don't have any naked neighbors, then you probably *are* the naked neighbor."</span> <span class="text-body-credit">Brazilian proverb</span>  
<span class="text-body-quote">"Honey, you're definitely the naked neighbor."</span> <span class="text-body-credit">Sal</span>

It's such a lovely paradox that in increased numbers there's comfort and safety, but in greater numbers, there's a solitude even more absolute than one can achieve when one is completely alone. I've never felt more like I lived in a display case before. My entire living space, unless the blinds are shut and the lights are off, is visible from the street level to the building tops from at least several directions. But there's a twist: They're all quite far away. A spectator would either have to really squint to see an outline or use binoculars like a proper peep. Frankly I don't give a damn who sees me naked. But I do try to avoid the types who go apeshit when they see a woman who's not hysterically trying to cover her body. Because those are the ones who are likely to be a pain in my ass. But if the person in question had to make a lot of effort to see me naked, they don't really have much of a case to give me grief. They'd have to expose themselves as pervs to do it. Ergo, I'm off the hook. I can live my life in the eyeshot of possibly hundreds of people, and no one can compel me to give a fuck about it. While I find this amusing as much as the next loophole in any social contract, most people, bless their hearts, would fail to see the possibility that my choices in the matter have nothing to do with exhibitionism. It's more of a relief, and makes me chuckle with glee that there is now one less thing I have to do unless I feel like it.

It was my new home that brought this fascinating oversight to my attention. It's been several months into my efforts to get comfortable in my residential neighborhood, minus the weeks of shock and frenzy that took place after the earlier setbacks in my life quickly escalated to catastrophic levels. It was a rocky road to say the very least. I have a complicated relationship with this flat, which was to be expected. It saved me when I was backed into a corner. And I resented it for every minute I've spent in it since.

It's hard to see the upside of change, especially when it's non-optional and diametrically opposed to the direction that you'd just pinned down as the right one for you. It's hard to feel anything other than panic and dismay. But now that the dust is settling, things are finally falling into focus. Just goes to prove my theory that there's a merit to everything and everyone, and even the most well-hidden of them will come up to the surface given enough time. You just need to wait long enough, look hard enough, and dim the surrounding noise low enough to keep an open heart.

The end of July and the first half of August was a marathon of physical challenges and mental breakdowns. Endless cycles of packing, moving, and unpacking tested the limits of my physical endurance while the demands of my job stretched out my capacity for stress and panic. Wore out my nerves so thin that the last of my fat reserves, which I could barely spare from my last ordeal, finally melted away. I made it to my family's arms by the skin of my teeth, 10,000 km away. They nursed me back to prime condition in less than a month and shipped me right back to the front lines. Then came September, mostly spent negotiating with the new cohabitator of my space, which was confusing at best and enraging at its worst, seeing as I didn't get a real chance to inhabit the space myself first.

October was a perfect vision in the Spirit of Autumn herself, which was slightly awkward, given it was spring here. There are many interpretations of this celebration. Harvest colors appear to be the unifying theme. But whether they're naturally occurring or artificially created in the pretty display of a high-end store is the dealer's choice. Colors reach their deepest shades under the overcast skies of the Brazilian spring. Because they so richly complement the imported colors of autumn, Moema can be very Bostonesque in October, possibly more than Boston itself. It certainly conveys the Halloween excitement anticipated by millions all year. How did it take me this long to realize that for thousands of years, for one reason or another, most of the world celebrates magic during my birth month?

There's a lot to be gained from taking a stroll in Moema's streets in spring if you can reserve judgment and achieve that elusive blank-slate state of mind. You can observe elegant Moemaeans in their natural habitat. Affluent locals would be leaving nice restaurants while the wind is picking up, signaling the evening chill, skirts of long summer dresses beating against straps of high heels, casual-smart dressed partners fumbling with the keys of their executive cars. These are the last hours of the day from which some Sunday joy can be juiced. Squeezing the most buzz out of every opportunity must be the most Brazilian ambition I know.

The problematic aspect of those moments: Identifying more as a Vila Mariana girl myself, it can be a bit deprecating to walk around what seems to be one of the top locations for Paulistanos looking for ways to splurge and make displays of wealth. Or worse: A whole social class who agrees to pay, by default, three times the price for all products in an entire neighborhood in exchange for having continuous access to a wider range of products including but not limited to the high-end, the fancy, and the imported. These people are so confident in their decision to live here that they couldn't go to any other kind of store on foot after 6 PM, even if they wanted to. That's commitment. But this doesn't help me when I walk amongst them wearing a bulky backpack, boots, and a bunch of layers topped off with a worn-out jean jacket. It might as well be illegal around here to carry any bag other than tiny purses or eco-conscious bags filled with vegan, gluten-free goods. I wouldn't be surprised if I were asked to leave a store for wearing clothes that are designed neither for a sales pitch nor exercise. I get jittery that someone's gonna demand that I present my documents of residency, or tear up my Moemaean passport after taking one look at my outfit.

Then came November, and the sweltering, exhausting heat. In waves, and storms. Heat up, and cool down. Nature gave her best shot at mass disorientation. Here, more than anywhere else. The whole neighborhood is one great attempt to induce a seizure. This is not your store-bought big city neonfests. The flashes come chiefly from the great sky itself, here. Planes take off close overhead, their bellies lighting up the walls of your flat, first on one side, then the other. Either a police car, an ambulance, or a fire truck passes by every five minutes, projecting prime colors on concrete in every direction from three blocks away, painstakingly and dangerously shaping a brain on the spectrum to ignore flashing colors in one's personal environment in a matter of months. Storms are even more intense. They happen exclusively under purple skies. Lightning strikes make full blocks flicker, sometimes blacking them out for hours. But most don't land on the ground at all. They streak from cloud to cloud for hours on end at a frequency equal to the resting heart rate of a human adult, adding to the post-apocalyptic emotional scene.

Only the rain can offer a break from the mental exhaustion. Things seem calmer and people seem saner. Possibly because people tend to look annoyed as they hurry. It makes them look like scurrying pests from up high. Looking for a hole in which to hide is all I want to do when I walk these sidewalks, so people's behavior in the heavy, steady, unwavering rain matches how I normally want to behave, somewhat assuring me that it's not just me. Without rain, local collective mental health would implode, I reckon. I did not think that gloom would suit any one place, but in Moema, it's just enough to move the needle from dystopian to noir. Noir is fine. I'm home with noir.

By December, things settled into a routine and started taking less time. Conflicts regarding shared space erupted into arguments less often. I started enjoying having a spacious, fully equipped, uncluttered kitchen for once, at the center of the house, and all the possible interactions in it. I started appreciating my cohabitant and started acknowledging the gift of space we received, plenty to share, and conveniently located midway between our lives. Maybe there was time to build a life together after all, even with the little amount left, before it would all have to be taken down again.

The noise from the roads below got less bothersome once I got used to walking around in the flat wearing headphones and pumping the sound of my own choice directly into my ears pretty much at all times. I miss the uninterrupted silence and the occasional bird chirping, who wouldn't, but it's alright. At least I'm not annoyed with the noises coming from people anymore, because what noise can a person make that is louder than four central roads situated around a single block. And I came to terms with the scene and started seeing my space as the semi-sheltered watch tower that it is, an urbanotorium, if you will. And I, the observer, the researcher, collecting data, expecting nothing more than functioning utilities and nothing short of stable, humble work while running out the clock. I pondered about the human tragedies that led to the scenes on the streets around me as I committed them to memory. Buildings for the rich, pavements for the fallen. What an intimate view I had of one of the most puzzling aspects of the human condition. I wondered what extinguished their existence, and whether I would fare any better under the same circumstances.

It's crazy what you witness when you're an insomniac chainsmoker with a balcony overlooking the junction of two main roads from the sixth floor. People do the most random things when they find a public space all to themselves, especially when it's a spot that is chock full of people and vehicles most hours of the day. After 2 am and before dawn, when the junction is sitting empty before them, some folks seem to feel compelled to find the exact middle point of the junction on the asphalt and sign it with their pee. Sometimes it doesn't even need to be late for quirky things to happen. Like a seemingly empty and unclaimed car burning in the middle of the road, just out of reach to be a threat to buildings on either side, especially with the dampness of the evening. Between the moments that I smelled the burned tires and saw the car from the building entrance, I had to entertain the possibility that my building was on fire. My suspicion was wrong, but my adrenaline rush, as well as the bag I packed within the minute thinking that the belongings in it might just be the only ones I get to keep - those were very real. The car kept burning until the fire squad arrived on the other side of the road. Both sides of the avenue got closed off in the rush hour to put out the fire. Cars that got stuck in the closed-off section stretched out for miles in both directions. Something that could have easily been a devastating tragedy, but wasn't, because nobody actually got hurt, only scared out of their minds or heavily inconvenienced. Essentially, a prank. This was in October, amid Halloween mania. Maybe it was all the memes I had seen, but in the aftermath of the burning-car-on-my-doorstep experience, I finally understood the essence of Halloween, and what people refer to as *spooky*. As a Scorpio, it's astonishing that the spirit and the festivities of the season managed to escape my attention all my life.

By the end of December, heat waves had become the new norm. Everyone had completed their flu rounds, and no one was batting an eye at the same-day differences in temperature under 15 degrees. Lazy days set in, intermittently. A little breeze carrying dense, cool enough air to draw one decent breath became the most anticipated event of the day. Some days, it didn't arrive until nightfall. Other days, well into the night. Entire days and nights passed by without a moment of freshness, at times. Then the holiday season bulldozed the mind and the body, week after week, and the chaotic, sticky haze persisted. 

Before I could get my shit together, January hit me like a truck coming from a direction that I didn't know I was supposed to check. Health scares and emotional spirals all over the place, errands every day, appointments every business day, and so on, and so forth. Introvert's nightmare. Planning never stopped, to-do lists of to-do lists were made, living with a calendar open somewhere at all times became a habit. At any given time, my mind was either ablaze with panic or fried from around-the-clock anxiety marathons. At the worst of this mental tornado, and before it finally occurred to me to tell myself to chill the fuck down, I considered that I might be watching myself lose my mind. It was basically rattling in my skull. But it passed. I think. Or it's still passing. That's life, isn't it - it always passes, until one day, it doesn't.

Come February, everything took a turn for the better. Every obstacle in my bureaucratic nightmare that had been pushing me one step closer to the edge, fell one after the other like domino stones. I've had the most surprising gestures of appreciation from the most unexpected sources. My loved ones held me upright through my worries with so much help, affection, and care that I could feel it radiate from them, with the final touch coming from my sister, <span class="annotated" data-note="Paraphrased from the lyrics of “Over the Rainbow”, originally ‘where trouble melts like lemon drops’. Written by Yip Harburg, 1939.">melting my troubles like lemon drops</span>. Of course it was her. And of course it was February. 

It only now occurs to me that two of my most romantic relationships started with the most random encounters that took place in mid-February, seven years apart. They both added a much needed tinge of pink to my world, lent me grace for the rest of the year, and faded out the heartache of the last. Both propelled great change, and both had fizzled out by the end of November. But that's fine, they had fulfilled their purpose, even if they were never meant to last. I needed to remember that it's not always hearthache and bloodshed all around, I needed the touch of lightness and the charm. It would be infuriating if it wasn't so amusing, that I'd always had the most sardonic approach towards Valentine's day, not out of envy or sadness, but out of pure indifference and amusement. So why not have fun with it. I used to celebrate it by watching bloody movies with girlfriends, because Valentine's day massacre, Chicago, 1929. Don't I feel put in my place, having had two magical affairs that took hold around Valentine's, and ended up representing everything that the day stands for at its core, once stripped from all its materialistic layers. Love for the sake of love, not for its future.

And here I am with my luck turned around, out of nowhere, once again around Valentine's. I may be on track for my original plan yet. I don't like this feeling. I was more comfortable thinking the universe was working against me. So be it. *Ikuzo.*
