---
layout: posts
title: "caravan"
date: 2023-02-22
permalink: /posts/23-02-22-caravan/
summary: "Gypsies are leaving."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 275
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
Gypsies are packing their caravan park and leaving. This time tomorrow, they'll be gone. And that's that. You can all sigh with relief. No more unsupervised children running around town unnerving locals. No more ladies with kind eyes selling roses to couples. No more joyful trios and quartets bringing music to your street, to your table, to your corner, seemingly manifesting out of thin air, everywhere. If you see a bonfire down at the beach it must be the teenagers. If you see an oddly dressed old timer or a madame smoking a pipe, they must be performance artists. If things are too tranquil for you now, feel free to liven it up with your own laughter so uninhibited that people think you must have no worries in life. Go ahead and color your own town in a way that seems excessive but weirdly fitting at the same time. Dance on your own bare feet if you like. They're gone. You have to find another reason why your jaw remains unclenched. Someone else to blame for still not feeling safe. Some other scapegoat for the garbage, the noise, the smell. Another theme to your endless complaining, another point to your bitter, incomplete existence you call a living. You might have to look around to figure out why your town was that lifeless to begin with. You might even have to look inside to discover the depths of your flavorlessness. No way. You'll figure something out. Either way, they're gone. It was time to move on. When you spend too much time around people whose lives taste like cardboard, it starts to rub off on you.
