---
layout: posts
title: "waterdrop"
date: 2023-01-02
permalink: /posts/23-01-02-waterdrop/
summary: "Plants potted in anything but pots, string lights, and music."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 0
wrdcount_quote: 24
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 8
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
The cream-colored paint on the windowsills and wooden shades is slightly flaking but still holds up nicely. Someone wanted to keep this old, modest house in well-enough shape to be lived in for at least a few generations. But the floor is definitely crooked. Objects roll away inexplicably. People have to be warned not to let the door hit their behind on their way out because the doors shut with their own weight in every room of the house. The auburn wooden floorboards in L-shaped tiles are pretty much the standard in the *casas* typical of these neighborhoods. They remind me of mom and dad's bookcases. They kept lugging those things from house to house, city to city, as far back as I can remember, and I never quite understood why. Tradition, maybe. I know I'd fight for them now, even though I still don't find them particularly pretty. I like how my bed turned out. The mattress resting low on pallets, pillows of various shapes, sizes, and functions, and the many cozy covers they're buried under, together making into puffy little bumps on which I can rest my feet when I sit in my chair. The moss-green blanket on top looks halfway between fuzzy and velvety in this light, which is much dimmer than I was expecting when I bought the moon lamp by the side of my bed. I'll replace it with something decent later. For the moment, it serves its function, which is to keep me from knocking things down during my bedtime ritual: Smoking in front of the window, listening to music, and mulling things over. Shades of brown, green, and yellow dominate the room with a few details of stark black and white, and some pastels sprinkled here and there. Funny how a color palette can just come to be in a room slapped together with little to no design in mind. I've mostly combined the few old things I had with some other old things friends gave me and the cheapest things available online or within walking distance. I must've picked up a certain sense of interior design while we were sharing our living space and making it our own for all those years.

Directly in front of my window is the stairs that belong to this cluster of houses, leading up to the gate, which is on the exact same horizontal plane as my room, allowing me to maintain eye contact and effectively communicate with whoever is at the entrance if I stoop and lean out the window and yell. The gate is only waist-high. Anyone can jump over it. But we still lock its wings together using a chain that Kai yanked from his old roommate's jeans before the said roommate fucked off and got replaced with a superior model, a.k.a. yours truly. There's a mailbox to the left of the entrance that is sort of tilted over to one side. A rental sign hangs from the gate because apparently the real estate office didn't get the memo that our house was rented over two months ago. It leaves me feeling slightly insulted every time I see it. A scene consisting of a rusty waist-high gate held together with a lock & chain, an outdated rental sign, and a crooked mailbox perched on top hardly makes a formidable impression on potential home intruders, but it might be spot on if the point is to look like there's nothing worth stealing inside. The lock does make it pretty formidable for the residents though. The whole ordeal of unlocking and relocking the damn thing can cost me the last bit of my patience sometimes, such is the case when I walk home from the subway after work while it's raining and I hold an umbrella in one hand while I fumble with the keys to open the wet gate with the other. But it gives us a piece of mind for some reason. It's probably not necessary at all - we live in a peaceful, safe, senile neighborhood.

Inside the gate, under the roses, is a white *fusca*. That's what Brazilians call the Volkswagen beetle, like we call it *tosbağa*, but not as whimsical, because it's not a nickname. This word, as far as I can tell, has always been reserved for this car in Brazilian Portuguese. The neighbor got it from his father. Unfortunately, he's not able to maintain it well enough to do the old-timer justice. Every once in a while he gets in the car and runs the engine without going anywhere, causing a whole lot of ruckus and even more exhaust fumes. But you know me, I'd put up with anything if it means I get to look out my window and see something as lovely as a retro car half buried under roses, smiling to myself that it's not even intentional.

To the right of the stairs and the gate and the roses is where our communal space with the other houses ends and a construction site begins. There is a wall in between, which is low enough for me to see over. I thank my lucky stars that the construction is currently not active and pray that it remains so. One of my favorite things about this neighborhood is that it gets really quiet at night if there are no yappy neighbors around. Vegetation has taken over the part of the construction site that is within my view. The shabby walls surrounding and going through the site look like they've been undisturbed for some time, and the rubble has already become a part of the ecosystem, complete with weeds, small trees, fallen trunks, bushes, and a navy-blue water tank. Like that green field that we loved driving by in Florya, the one we used to call *arazi*. The only sign of life around comes from the small brick hut to the right of the site, its inhabitants being who I'm assuming is a security guard and a large Siamese cat. Sometimes the cat jumps from the wall into the field, takes its sweet time crossing it, stops midway, sits completely still, and looks me dead in the eye through my window. Sometimes I watch it hunt at night. The owner put up flickering Christmas lights on the side of the hut. I find it in poor taste and mistake it for the lights of a police car every time it's in my peripheral vision. This nonsense called the holiday season can't end soon enough.

But of all the things I see through my window, what I think you'd appreciate the most is the big tree right outside our gate that looks almost out of a fairytale. It stands tall in all its glory, trunk and branches covered with a grass-like life form, arms spreading and reaching up in twists and turns. For the seven years that I've spent in São Paulo, I didn't know the name of this type of tree. I've asked many times, but people here don't commonly know the name of their trees and flowers as we do. It's always been my favorite here and a staple of the neighborhoods in which I loved living the most. Finally this week Sal used a plant identification app which identified it as *tipuana*. There is a streetlight somewhere in there, under the roof of the tree or possibly behind it, highlighting its form like stage lights. I appreciate the tree for sheltering me from the streetlight shining directly into my eyes almost as much as I appreciate the magical ambiance it provides with some help from the lesser greenery that surrounds it. Behind the tree, on the other side of the narrow street, is the tall outer wall of a Buddhist temple, whose silhouette is clearly visible even against the night sky. There is a structure extending from its roof, which, according to a quick search, is called a *sōrin* in Japanese architecture. Sometimes at a glance at the temple's curved roofs and its poles, I almost think there's a mosque there but I'm so grateful that there isn't, because not only is the temple infinitely more graceful but it also doesn't wake me up at the crack of dawn with a noise that we both know is the stuff of nightmares. Instead, we have birds. There's never a shortage of chirping here. Depending on the season, these poor urban birds with their messed up biological clocks can start chirping as early as 3-4 am, sometimes marking the end of a party and the beginning of the subway's operating hours. Those are good days. I like those days.

So here I am. Living in an old house in São Paulo, 10,000 km from my birthplace and everyone I'm related to or have known within the first 28 years of my life. My roommate is a gay guy who happens to be my best friend, who's also bipolar and currently recovering from the episode of depression that he was hurled into after losing his father, his job, and his dreams of moving out of Brazil, in addition to falling out with his former best friend and basically getting kicked out of his house - all within the span of only a few months. Although he's doing much better recently, he's been unemployed and understandably drifting, and yet I've signed a contract for at least a year and furnished a house from scratch with him because I didn't want to miss the chance to live with my best friend. It might be the only one I'll ever get. I suppose I could try to blame mom and dad for teaching us to choose people over money, but the fact remains that I don't make safe, smart, grown-up choices. And frankly, I think I'm better off for it. I'm 35 and this is my life. Every night I stay up way too late while already sleep-deprived, but I'd rather read, write, draw or unwind from the day than get enough sleep. I don't have a steady romantic partner. I don't have a job that pays my bills. I don't live in an adult house nor do I do adult things like eating well or alienating toxic people - instead my life never lacks drama, I'm perpetually getting over some dude and/or getting excited about another, people walk all over me, I work like a dog for peanuts, eat like a child who has money, smoke like a chimney, and when I'm not concerned about my health and my future I'm downright panicking that I'm getting old and I still don't have my shit together. Nothing in the house matches anything else because it almost exclusively contains hand-me-downs from our friends who either gave them to us or sold us for next to nothing. The living room couch is a single bed on top of pallets, with big cushions for back support, and a string of lightbulbs around the wooden boards for ambiance - every single item of which came from a different person. We don't have guest sheets and pillows, just the "couch" and Kai's hammock. We don't buy nice wine or store it at the right temperature, we follow the Brazilian student household rules: Strictly middle-shelf stuff that meets the bare minimum requirements for not being classified as a *köpek öldüren*, no bottle stays in the fridge for longer than two weeks, and once opened it does not go back. Along with wine and an ample reserve of cold water, which we keep in the screw-top wine bottles that we drank, party leftover hard liquors, beer, and tonic take up most of the space in our fridge. And that's an improvement over the one I had in my old place in which I didn't keep food at all, only beverages. There are many good things going on for me in this house that I didn't have in my old place, and most of them are a direct result of Kai's presence. But one thing that is essential to both of us is that the house always be equipped for someone having a meltdown, whether they live here or not.

So there you have it - refrigerated red wine, improvised furniture, windows that are so stuck they require horsepower to open and shut, leaking ceilings, middle-of-the-night screams from the kitchen over unnaturally quick & humongous cockroaches, food that's gone biology-lab-grade bad, cigarette smoke everywhere, apology tea making rituals, emergency venting sessions, evergrowing number of plants potted in anything but pots, string lights, and music. Always, always music. At my age, this sounds like a clear-cut case of refusing to face the reality, the textbook definition of Peter Pan syndrome, the conclusive proof that I've become a cautionary tale of a woman who turned down a solid career, quality husbands, financial security and all sorts of safety, just to chase after some silly teenage dream. For an outside observer, it must look like I threw away all prospects of success, marriage, and family for nothing. In fact, for a long time, even I'd been convinced that I'd ruined my life and become a living and breathing fiasco. But the truth is, I was aiming for something that I couldn't find there or see any open path toward, and I somehow landed exactly what I wanted even though I didn't quite know what it was when I set out: A less materialistic life that has authenticity, beauty, and warmth in it. A living arrangement that grants me more access to open-wide space and landscape. A life that involves people that are truly essential to me and to whom I am essential as well. A job that I enjoy doing every day even if it doesn't impress people, in a place where I enjoy the company of the people I work with, and don't feel completely insignificant and replaceable. Things that I do for myself that are meaningful and fulfilling to me, that I'm passionate about and would like to get better at doing, even though no one's paying me to do so, nor will they ever get me closer to some ambitious career goal. A life that is less about comfort and self-indulgence, and more about self-realization and once-in-a-lifetime experiences. I know, I've finally completed my transformation into a fully fledged neo-hippie. We've all seen this coming.

Don't get me wrong, my life is no picnic nor has it been - I've paid dearly for every single one of the modest things I have. I've spent a lot of time feeling completely alone in this hemisphere with zero support, safety net, or anyone to notice or care whether I'm around or not. Countless times I've picked up that beyond-precious notebook in which you wrote to me and filled with our photos, unwrapped the cloth tape measure, and read it as I cried my heart out because I desperately needed to feel like I mattered to someone, somewhere in the world. Twice I've spent an entire day in bed sick without having a single bite to eat because I was too weak to get up and there was no one to bring me food. It is rare that I feel so alone now, especially since I've moved in with someone who deeply cares about me, but I still get a little lonely from time to time. Except now, I have a better sense of which feelings of mine are justified and which are completely blown out of proportion, but I didn't then, not for the first 6 years, because I was alone and out of my element. It was also challenging to live without speaking my first language and conduct my life in my second and third. When I realized my mother tongue was disintegrating, I felt profound shame as if I had lost a part of my identity. Simultaneously, I feel like an idiot for still not speaking Portuguese fluently and comfortably after 7 years and there's no excuse or easy fix for that. Sometimes there's not a soul around for hundreds of miles who could understand what I mean, because the expression can be translated but the sentiment can't, and in those times I feel like such an outsider, so far away from home, that I want to assume the fetal position and disappear. But with time I've learned that it's not about how much people are able to communicate with me, it's about how much they want to connect with me. So when I feel that way now, I leave, and seek the company of people who are interested in what I have to say. I miss mom and dad, and I hate to make them sad, and it took me a while to get over the guilt, but I've decided that I can't live my life for other people at the expense of my own happiness, even if they're my own flesh and blood. Especially after seeing some prime examples of what that choice does to people 40 years down the line during my last trip to the *Martyrland*. It was hard to adapt to a culture of people who don't wear their hearts on their sleeves, who drink and yell and dance instead of openly feeling their pain when they're sad, who don't say what they mean or even hint at it, to the point that you don't find out what's been going on until the rug is pulled from under you. But I've gotten better at reading the signs and planning for the unexpected - I've even learned to enjoy their ways on occasion. I don't miss Turkish food all that much, but I could kill for a meal of *zeytin-peynir-ekmek* pretty much at any given moment. It's frustrating looking for clothes made of cotton here and I do not enjoy having to choose between cotton grandma briefs and plastic thongs when I need new underwear, but I found that I can buy whatever I need in bulk from there when I visit. It's been rough finding out how disposable people are to each other here, falling in love or becoming best friends in a heartbeat and disappearing or acting like you're nothing to them the next day. So much so that you'd think maybe they were a figment of your imagination. I've been disappointed, frustrated, and got let down quite a bit. But I've found a small group of dependable people and made them into my family. When they come over and we share drinks and laughs in our tiny backyard under the string lights hanging from Kai's collection of plants, life feels like a Ferzan Özpetek film, more specifically, *Saturno contro*.

The one thing I'll never get used to, though, that I can't or won't ever accept, is living half a world away from you. I'd never thought that I would have to miss out on being a part of your life for this long. I'd never imagined that you'd have Isa, or that I wouldn't be around to see her grow up. After 7 years, it still feels unnatural that I don't know what you're doing most of the time, what your days are like, or how often you feel excited, bored, overwhelmed, frustrated, scared, happy, satisfied, or sad. You don't know much about my life either, my crazy-ass life, filled with highs and lows over unconventional relationships at work, at home, with friends, with dates. We hear about each other's big news, but we don't know much about each other's small victories and disappointments. And yet our bond doesn't feel broken to me one bit.

And that's what I'm contemplating tonight. I've got my feet up on the windowsill, slightly aware of the soft feeling of my black and red flannel pajama bottom against my legs, and while random songs with neither an upbeat nor a downer mood keep rolling I look out the window with a cigarette in my hand and I'm wondering what you'd think about my life, and how I'd describe it to you. I study the scene. I turn my eyes to the sky. As is the case in all big cities, São Paulo's polluted night sky is purple. String clouds are passing by in and out of my view over the trees, the houses, and the temple's roof. I'm looking for a connection, anything tangible, that explains how it is that I've been here, and you've been there, for all this time, and our lives are as different as can be, yet I still feel as connected to you as I did before leaving, maybe even more. I'm incredibly proud of the person you've become. And I think you're proud of me too. Then I remember that I studied what moves the clouds. And you studied how they interact with all life. Between the two of us, I bet we could theorize about the paths that a drop of water in those clouds could take from here, move over the ocean, make its way through rivers and seas and land, and reach you. It could happen. And when I really need to feel your presence, I can think about how we are nourished by the same water and earth, breathe the same air, walk under the same sun, look at the same moon. I know it's corny and I know it's not enough, but it can be of comfort in times of dire need and scarcity.

Being the pride and joy of the same two parents, it's confounding how fundamentally different our lives turned out so far, and how much we've covered between the two of us - how many hemispheres, how many countries, how many languages, how many careers, how many types of intelligence, how many roles, how much struggling, how much strength, how much wisdom, how much love. Put together, we've lived so many lifetimes' worth. With the two of us, nothing essential lacks. Maybe that's why when I tell people about you, I say that you're my other half. It seems as if I change my mind about what I want every other day, I know, but there are still things of which I'm certain, and dreams that I'll never give up. I think about sharing with each other and Isa, all that we collected in our respective corners. I think of us watching her grow up to be a strong, smart, sensitive, courageous, well-rounded individual with the best of both of our qualities. I imagine the neighborhoods we would live in, the walks we could take through beautiful streets, a piece of red velvet and a nice cup of tea we might treat ourselves to on Tuesday afternoons. I wonder what new things we'll get into the habit of doing together, what crises we'll get through with each other's support, what occasions we'll celebrate, what crazy but eventually insignificant fights we'll have, what reasons we'll call each other in the middle of the night for. I hope that one day, soon, we'll lean on each other again for anything and everything that matters, knowing that the other one is within walking distance, in case anything happens. Like we used to do most of our lives before all the craziness.

<span class="text-body-quote">And after all's  
Been said and done  
Who said it best  
Were you the one?  
Let's just forget  
Leave it behind  
And carry on</span>  
<span class="text-body-credit">— Norah Jones</span><span class="annotated" data-note="From the album ''Day Breaks'', 2016.">*</span>
