---
layout: posts
title: "scales"
date: 2023-11-04
permalink: /posts/23-11-04-scales/
summary: "A drive to the macabre end of the nihilistic scale."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 1409
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
Most people say mean things to themselves when they're down and feel like they failed. Amateurs.

The flip side of creativity coupled with a strong visual memory is that it can also work against you. Most people bark at their inner demons to shut the hell up already and call it a day. I need to push against a fully immersive experience with significant production value entirely dedicated to making it clear that I suck, and I should disappear. A long-term dip in my spirits pushes my imagination into overdrive until I reach the macabre end of the nihilistic scale. My intense desire to have never existed manifests itself as scripts of swift but gory deaths waiting for me around every corner. A moment waiting by the traffic light is as good a time as any for my vision to morph into an approaching car flying off the sidewalk, landing roof-first on top of me, and dragging my body some ten meters before it comes to a screeching halt. I think about the shapes that the bloody skid marks would form on the pavement, and my remains mixing with the mud. When I'm moving about in my flat with the balcony door open, it's an opening for the mind to run back-to-back freak accident scenarios that all lead to me free-falling six stories and into the main street traffic below. I stare at my keys on the door with the purest intentions to simply recall whether I'd locked it, and find myself calculating how long it'd take for someone to realize I'm missing if I got killed in my flat by a home intruder. I see myself hurled into walls and crashing through them spine-first with no context in the middle of a sip of coffee. I get curious about how it'd look if I laid motionless between two sheets of spotless glass and a hundred spikes pierced clean through my torso simultaneously. There's no anguish in these visions, nor sadness or regret. They don't even feel heavy. I watch them on my mind's white screen with an expressionless face, somewhat with fascination, and I feel relieved, if anything, that my state of non-existence is served to me without the side of guilt. I know that my loved ones would suffer unfathomable pain, but at least I wouldn't have been the one inflicting it on them. Prolonged anxiety destabilizes me into thinking of even more things to be anxious about. My latest choice of poison: Hypochondria. I can weave a web of hypotheses starting out from any symptom, however faint or possibly imaginary, and have it reach any of the terrifying conditions I can think of, each unique with its own map to an early grave as well as physical, mental, or financial ruin. It wouldn't be Thursday if I wasn't wondering whether I have what it takes to be self-sufficient as a recently disabled person. Not a proper Sunday afternoon if I'm not contemplating what it would feel like to experience your own mental decline. In the absence of distractions from the outside world, they all start to look pretty plausible too. Anger, from my uninhibited perspective, entitles me to complete annihilation. If I come across a rude person while I'm on a certain cocktail of hormones, I enjoy thinking what it'd be like to rip their face off and shove it down through their lipless mouth. Sometimes I hiss at people, quite literally. At barking dogs who startle me, always. I mumble to myself "You need to be murdered, violently", why? Because they walk in a group spread out in front of me, slowly. Sometimes the line between which reaction is understandable in which environment gets blurry and I end up with a reputation. "For fuck's sake, why do you have to be so negative." "You need to grow a thicker skin." "You're so intense." "You're mental." At these troubled times, every instance of someone making casual remarks that crap on my entire personality, someone whose opinion I care about or whose comment was extra harsh, is pulled out of the archives. They sift through into my consciousness and start rolling on heavy rotation like a broken record. The seemingly glamorous lives of those opinions' owners, particularly those who have wronged me immensely, breach through my weakened defenses, haunt me, and taint me endlessly. Continued impact comes as a fully produced mini-series. I play the same part with different endings, in different genres, by different directors, to no end in sight. The general plot seems to revolve around the events of my mother being proven right, my landing the stereotypical life of a cat lady, becoming the weird uncle, except an aunt, and turning into an emotional and financial burden to my family forever. I'm afraid the journey is non-optional, all aboard, ma'am.

If you're a frequent complainer of being on the receiving end of the byproducts of my mind, I'd like to see you cope with having a memory like mine. I wonder if you can shove anything to the back of your mind then. Let's see you being perfectly cordial when any combination of senses can yank you right out of your reality and throw you into the middle of a memory complete with all its visual and olfactory elements. Let's see you making your way through the world when you feel like a squirrel amongst humans, with danger around every corner. I trust you'll keep your social decorum when the outdoor performances of certain music and couples dancing to it, against a setting of colonial houses, sets in motion a memory with the most intoxicating man you've ever been skin to skin with. Or walking through an alley that has a weirdly familiar feel to it immerses you back into the most terrible heartache you'd ever felt, the one that squished you flat. Have fun looking undisturbed while reliving that particular flavor of suckiness.

When the world disappears and you walk the sightless walk of the dead, it's hard to opt out of the inner experience. But that makes it all the more rewarding when I'm free of pain, capable of kindness and affection, even happiness. I need to ride my dragons to earn my victories. It's the only way - they're too big and menacing to slay. I tried to get rid of my dragons, usually prompted by others who got a little unsettled, but I was fine. I got used to their company, and I miss the drama when things are stable. I miss the deep vibration of their humming, signaling that change is on its way, that chaos is brewing, picking out its outfit to make its entrance. But I'm too unpredictable for most people, too unstable. It makes me too much work to be molded into the purpose and shape they want from me. No one wants to be too intense and difficult to be wanted around, not all the time. It might be perfect for some occasions, and granted, it makes good memories. But in exchange, you get to be a guest player in the lives of countless people who are all strangers to you now, instead of playing a meaningful part in the life of anyone who stays. So I tried, I really did, to turn down the volume. To no avail. When I started to even remotely resemble normal, I became a shadow. Life turned to grayscale, inside and out. Having lost my flight, I became boring, ordinary, and bitter with the memories of the bygone wind in my hair. Because the same machine that consumes me to my bones, also enriches all my experiences. On a pleasant night, darkness looks sprinkled with glitter in neon colors, and wind chimes sound in the distance. Happiness comes in waves of inspiration. A strong friendship flourishing over years and through countless mini-calamities is painted in my mind's eye as two tendrils crisscrossing up the same tree's bark while the sun shines through the baby green of their fragile tiny curly stems. Hardship toughens me up so I can shield what and whom I hold dear. Grief tears down my whole philosophy so I can build a new one, one that allows me to live in a world without what I lost.

This crazy lady is done trying to send off her dragons. If you won't love them as much as she does, do everyone a favor, and walk away.
