---
layout: posts
title: "vocita"
date: 2023-02-22
permalink: /posts/23-03-15-vocita/
summary: "No tiny heartbeats in this belly."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 510
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
Tonight I'm sitting by the window cradling my belly the way a pregnant woman cradles her belly sitting by the fire. But there are no tiny heartbeats under this blanket. My hands are there in an attempt to calm down the storm inside, a storm of aching, cramping, churning mess pushing the broken-down flesh and blood out of my body. It's strange to think that just a couple of days earlier, when I put my hands on my waist and looked down in the shower, trying to rationalize the tiny but strangely firm bump and wondering whether I'd indulged too much in empty calories or hadn't taken enough care with condoms, what I was holding was actually a sack full of blood and nonviable tissue decomposing in preparation for its exit.

My ovaries were identified as faulty when I was only a teenager. It's unlikely for me to get pregnant by accident, seeing as it would've been difficult even if I were ten years younger and actually trying. But that's alright. It's more than alright - it's what I want. If I don't screw up, my body will never host another human life. And that's exactly why I'm cradling her - she's in distress but she's fine. I'm trying to comfort her because I appreciate her remaining devoid of life. Although it hurts like a mother, everything is exactly the way it should be. I see this baby box as more than a subscription I got stuck with even though I've never had any use for it nor have I ever signed up for it. I like to think that she is the source of all my trademark extremes. The cave from which my most terrifying self emerges and turns people into rabbits in headlights. As well as the river that feeds my compassion which, at times, leaves people nothing short of blindsided. With the ups and downs she brings upon me, she's the intuition and the inspiration behind all the little spins I put on things to see them from different angles, a little softer, a little less impossible, or with more insight. By preserving its state of void, she gives me the flexibility to go where life is, adapt, and endure. When things get rough, she teaches me to bend without breaking. By bleeding on the go every month, she lends me the matrilineal knowledge that just because there is blood doesn't mean there's an emergency, nor is searing pain any reason to stop, or give up. She's my resilience. She deserves to be coddled when in distress. I feel she's the wisdom my mother passed onto me, and her mother passed onto her, although knowing my grandmother, she probably wouldn't have, if she could help it, if she could pass on truly nothing to my mother, I believe she would, my grandmother. And that's it. I've got two faulty ovaries and a permanently vacant uterus. And I strongly suspect that she's where my edge comes from, the very thing that keeps me not only alive, but living.
