---
layout: posts
title: "world without"
date: 2023-07-11
permalink: /posts/23-07-11-worldwithout/
summary: "Grief leads the way."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 1237
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
Ingrid can't sleep. She slides out of bed and looks out the window of her bedroom's window in her family's cabin up in the mountains. Stark dark wet barks and branches of the woodlands half buried under the frosty snow set a pretty decent silver & violet-blue theme under the full moon. She thinks, *my hair is silver. It seems too good of a chance to miss*. She puts on her boots. She puts on her gray coat, wool scarf, purple mittens. She dresses quickly but calmly - such as the efficiency of time-tested sequences. She can find her way inside the house in pitch black, she can leave and shut the door without a sound. She's been a hunter since she was old enough to hold a rifle. She studies the wooden surface of her family home's front door for a moment before facing the other way. She walks into the forest by the hunter's trail. Her hair looks exactly the way she thought it'd look in the bright moonlight, in the snowy pine forest. It's silver and blue, gray and lilac all around, and she blends right in. It's peaceful. Ingrid walks intently. Her face is as expressionless as the icy snow she hears her boots are crushing. Walking is her only objective for the time being. She doesn't have to go far without her gear before it's impossible to return.

Lucille's grief is so thick, it leads the way as bystanders step aside. The wide-eyed terror on her face deepens the charcoal makeup around her dark eyes, which resemble more of a wild animal's than a human's. Her steps are precise. She navigates the rough terrain with practiced ease. She makes her way to the riverbank without skipping a beat. She's never felt that alert and entranced at the same time her whole life. It's going to be another century or two before anyone can come along and tell her that that's called adrenaline. Once at the riverbank, she takes a right to tread the wet stones and follows the stream. It's as warm as it gets under this perpetually gray sky. All it took was a red summer dress and her worn-out sandals. Finally, she arrives at a spot where the river is wide enough for a steamboat to pass. She's already undone her long braid. It was right before she left the house, in front of the mirror by the front door. Now her freshly freed dark curls sweep the air anywhere between her waistline and her crown. She looks tall. She looks righteous. She's staring at the shore across the river but she doesn't see the shore across the river. Lucille has picked her nicest dress that has pockets for this special occasion.

Kashi is shaking his head in disbelief as he walks away from the camp. Staggering to stay upright from heartbreak, yet energized by fury, he somehow leaves the site unnoticed. It boggles his mind that a person can cause this much pain to another without breaking a law, or so much as a social contract. Only promises. He's been attracted to boys for as long as he can remember feeling attracted to anyone. He's been an outcast, an oddball, a sadsack, for as long as he can remember being called anything. And for a golden moment in the sun, he'd been seen and deemed special, as much as the next miserable soul could be around here. But now - it didn't seem fair, the loneliness he'd been born with was hard enough without being betrayed and abandoned, too. It's a small community, they'll never let him live this down. They barely let him live before. He's convinced now that this is a world in which someone can make their life better by shitting all over yours, and completely get away with it. Well he won't just stand there and take it. The steady stream of tears washes the dirt off his face and blows it off his jaw into the strong breeze from the mountains. He's not even aware. Too hurt to fight back, too weakened to make it on his own, too proud to ask for compassion, and too young to know that he could survive this if he tried, Kashi's mind is set: He'll leave this place as quickly as he can. And the only ticket he needs to the only place he can think to escape, is already concealed under his tongue since he was 5. The river will do the rest.

Let's suppose, for a moment, that we live in a time in which the advancement of science doesn't feature in social media with shabby articles whose headlines start with *studies show* or *scientists found a link between x and y*. Let's imagine, instead, it's a point in the future when the exact models birthed by science and engineering can approximate the mechanisms of our immediate universe well enough for us to get all the answers to all our questions. All equations written. All mysteries explained. All theories unified. No more interpretations, no more hypotheses, no more educated guesses. So much so that, let's imagine for a moment, that we know everything there is to know about the human brain, how it all works, and why. 

Wouldn't it be the most devastating cosmic joke if we were to find out, through this new absolute science, that the evolutionary purpose behind that feeling, behind the voice that tells you that you are worthless, have nothing to offer, and others would be better off without you, urging you to eliminate yourself from the equation - what if we confirmed that *that voice* was right? What if its purpose is to cue one in that they failed as a member of society and the best thing they could do for the survival of their species would be to give their body back to earth, and give their resources back to those who were more likely to survive and thrive? How many people would break down over that particular piece of information, rendered inconsolable that their worst suspicion was proven right?

That would be utter bollocks, of course. For one thing, that's not how evolution works. But also it doesn't take a statistician to figure out how much someone struggles with seeing the point of their existence has got nothing to do with how bad or good of an influence they are in the world. They can be a menace to society or an advancer of civilization, annoyingly often, both. There is no correlation between the two, no cosmic metric keeping, no divine justice. The voice is just a malfunction, a by-product of something that probably keeps us alive in other ways. There are, as it so happens, people without whom the world would be better off. But more often than not, they're the ones who live infuriatingly, unapologetically long lives filled with ugly gratification, usually as they keep wasting perfectly lovely people. The ultimate life-prolonging tip, it turns out, is utmost disregard for others' wellbeing. If anyone should be considered a waste of space and resources, it would be someone of that sort. But enough about my exes.

So whoever you are, whatever happened that led you to hear that voice telling you that it's best if you just disappear, I hope you have the strength to talk back to it and say, *I beg to differ*.
