---
layout: posts
title: "orchard"
date: 2023-05-25
permalink: /posts/23-05-25-orchard/
summary: "My people, like my landscape, cannot change."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 549
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
People tend to forget that nature's ways are unfathomably cruel. She doesn't try to preserve and maintain and restore. She doesn't hoard. She doesn't fawn over her knick-knacks. She gets fed up and flips the table and wipes the board clean. Fit or unfit for survival left behind alike.

I'm a first-class hoarder. I acquire pretty little peculiar old things that are meaningful to me, and I try to freeze them in time. Still, all I've collected and will collect wouldn't amount to even a fragment of what's reduced to ashes in a moderate catastrophe brought on by her. The entire lifetime of one petty human is barely a speck of dust compared to the age of existence. While you fight tooth and nail to stay upright, and try to make a difference in the lives of a handful of other petty humans, pets, plants, and nations, mother nature can eradicate entire species overnight. You think elections are important, you think their impact will last for decades. Then a mountain blows up somewhere, and the dark clouds covering every square inch of the planet take their sweet time dispersing, clouds that stand between you and food, your family and warmth, life and death, leaving you with your eyes glued to the horizon for a fresh, pink dawn that wouldn't arrive for centuries to come.

I've come to rely on this mountain. I've grown quite fond of that valley. This lake over here is where I get my fish. That orchard over there is where I pick my fruit.

My people, like my landscape, cannot change. I don't handle it very well. Actually I do, but I'd rather endure just about anything else. But no matter how many times I go through a change that I thought meant the end of my world and find out that I actually quite like the result, I still can't help but scream bloody murder and run in the opposite direction every time I feel it approaching. For some reason, after I clock in that as soon as I stop fighting and start adapting I'm actually not half bad at handling change, the memo never sticks. Next time it comes around I get preemptively traumatized all over again. Like a child during bathtime. So every person in my corner counts. Each bit of aid makes it a little easier for me to keep it together.

Yohl has the most compelling arguments. Simon is the stoic, which makes his company exactly what I need sometimes. Mathilde can show you a different perspective of even the grimmest looking situations. Claudette is the only one who can cook and season vegetables to the grade of perfection that she can, offering a shortcut to feeling loved when I crave it but feel too hurt for words to reach my ears.

But mother nature doesn't care about the mountain or my beloved orchard. Just like people of the world, collectively, minus the sorry bunch on my side, don't care about my delicate disposition. You can walk up the hill that used to lead to your favorite tree-shaded spot one morning and find a fuming crimson-fractured chasm in its place. No explanation, no closure, just the cold indifference of a vast universe in the grand scheme of things, all around.
