---
layout: posts
title: "luck be"
date: 2023-05-07
permalink: /posts/23-05-07-luckbe/
summary: "Little red polka dotted wings."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 334
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
I'm a ladybug. People usually get a kick out of meeting me. Reactions range from *duly noted* to frantic efforts to deliver me safely back to the great outdoors. Some smile, some daydream about the wishes they could wish, most shift slightly into a better mood, may it be only for a moment or the rest of the day. But people usually get something out of it.

My end of the deal, however, is not so rosy. While it's nice that no one wants to squish me in panic, it's not exactly everyone's understanding of a good time, either, to be chased around with containers of various shapes, sizes, purposes and number of closed ends by awkward excited squeaking giants. They try real hard not to hurt me but aren't so considerate when it comes to scaring the bejesus out me as I'm shoved in and blown up to high heavens. I can't get comfortable anywhere, ever. I always get spotted eventually, on account of all the bright-red-and-shiny-dots thing going on. Manchild caves are the best. Loves the black leather, red lighting & green houseplants combo but hates people, this manchild bunch. They hardly pay any attention to anything other than themselves. Makes it real easy to blend in and go unnoticed. But even then, I get a few weeks at best. Their cleaning ladies usually find me, once they turn off the creepy red lights, open up the windows, and let in some natural light. Then out we go, and back to square one.

But it's okay. They mean well. I wasn't looking for a shelter or anything. Of course I don't mind being hurled out of an 18th-floor window if it's going to make your wish come true. Or getting sucked out of a car window by a difference in air pressure so high that it pulls my little red polka-dotted wings right out. Or being catapulted onto the coming traffic of a 50-mph-minimum highway. People love me. I should be grateful.
