---
layout: posts
title: "flipoffs"
date: 2024-01-07
permalink: /posts/24-01-07-flipoffs/
summary: "Everyone thinks dolphins are so great."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 254
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
Everyone thinks dolphins are so great because they are very skilled, intelligent, and social animals but they're also playfully athletic. People are so impressed that they communicate with sonic waves and navigate using echolocation. I, on the other hand, found myself wondering how terrible that little fish's death must have been. Imagine hearing weird, clickety noises getting louder and louder as the predator making it is getting closer and closer, until it finally pulls you out of your hiding in the sand with jaws that can trap a bunch of you in one go. How terrifying a death for the poor fella. I think about its position because I recently got an MRI. The whole time I couldn't help but clench with terror at the unbelievably loud machine noise surrounding me, and that fear came from a very primal place. I lay down partially inside the machine, not even close to being entirely within, yet it was akin to what I imagine must feel like to lie inside the mouth of a predator. But who cares about the feelings of the poor little fish in its last moments, who basically lives with an airplane-crash-terrifying death waiting for it around every corner. We assume they're used to it, but we don't know. I for one happen to find dolphins very punchable. Maybe I'm just looking for an excuse to pick a fight with those smug little shits. They're the flashy extroverts to my quirky introvert. They're the Gryffindor to my Ravenclaw. Damned bullies. Fucking show-offs.
