---
layout: posts
title: "jars"
date: 2024-12-05
permalink: /posts/24-12-05-jars/
summary: "Boy, I would've married you."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 515
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
There wasn't a single person who walked into our house and hadn't commented on the corners of the living space that Claudette had arranged. A peculiar collection of half a dozen multilingual books illuminated with a wooden lamp that looks like a set piece from a Tim Burton stop-motion movie. Watercolor brushes sitting inside a cut-off cylindrical cardboard container, the kind that comes with an expensive bottle, probably received as a gift. Anyone who's been to our kitchen had to express their adoration over the things Claudette gathered. She had a gift for spotting the warmest colors and retro patterns that didn't border into kitschy. Nothing made of plastic - only ceramic or glass would do, and occasionally tin. She had a classy approach to health like that. She always made sure that anything that a coffee or tea lover could ever need was ready in a cute container. No one knew what brand of sugar or honey we were using, because we never used them right out of their packaging. She always kept those containers filled. We had tea of at least 10 herb combinations at any time, and the teabox was always stocked. She loved making kitchen collections with things that didn't match in size or shape. She loved to find a theme to unite them. A spice collection in clear glass labelless jars that matched the frequency with which the spice is used. Dry greens in large bulby ones, because they go out fast in high volumes, and powders in tiny baby formula bottles because they're pungent and small amounts suffice. I suspected she even associated spices with people she knew and played favorites with them. I never saw her fussing over the cumin jar, for instance. She'd be happy like a child on Christmas day when a new jar of goods was emptied. She'd wash the jars, dry them, store them until they accumulated to a few, and put them in hot water for a day to peel their labels. We never quite understood what drove her rituals. Some of us grew to like it, some of us enabled it, and some of us barely tolerated it. But none of us understood it. It was only after she moved out that we could pinpoint what it was. She was constantly trying to surround herself with things that assured her. Things that made her feel covered, warm, safe. It was only when she was no longer there to take care of us in her little ways, and all that was left of her affection was those corners of the house, that it became apparent what she was trying to do. With the thought that went into those little things, she still made us feel doted on. Claudette lives where her stuff lives. She doesn't leave things behind lightly. Which is why when she didn't take everything with her, it was a token of appreciation, a sign of affection, and her attempt to fight off her biggest fear - to be forgotten. It was her way of carving the words, *"Claudette was here."*
