---
layout: posts
title: "who's your daddy"
date: 2024-10-15
permalink: /posts/24-10-15-whosyourdaddy/
summary: "At the business end of a narcissist."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 1586
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
To think that I'm writing this outside right after the systems pulling the tarp over my terrace broke a day ago and now a part of it permanently stays open. Just as the cold hit. The cold that I'd been looking forward to, because it was going to be my first proper one in the northern hemisphere in 3 years, what with my skipping continents at critical times and moving just as the summer was ending there and spring was starting here. Now it's finally here but I can't take cover, literally. While my cozy living room sits pretty inside, it's an 18°C semi-cloudy day outside. Not that it's bad, not for most people, but it's enough to justify a cabbage-style outfit for me made of layers ranging from long sleeves to fingerless mittens. What can you do. When it's time to write, you don't think, you grab your equipment and go. At the exact environment you started thinking.

So this one goes to all the men of my broken life.

One emotional skill I did not expect to acquire with age is looking beyond men's attitudes and scanning their damage. But one type in particular: The narcissist whose spirit, whatever it was made of we'll never know, was bulldozed by the totalitarian machismo inflicted on him by his father. The good and the bad alike ground to a fine powder to be molded into a hard shell. Permanently. There are clear steps for these men to follow in romantic relationships: Acquire a target, find their poison and get them addicted to you, or find their vulnerability and get them depending on you, stay on your best behavior until they feel safe, then grab power and turn them into a machine to pleasure you and build you up. Personality doesn't matter, feedback is not solicited. When the need is met, dispose of the target as conveniently as possible. The stronger the pushback, the more urgently they need to go. Because hard shells are resistant to impact but not so much to pecking. They're impossible to bend but with enough persistence, easy to break. The gears inside, virtually unchanged since puberty, lack the creativity to repair and the stamina to rebuild. That's why, as we inch towards 40, being the target mass of this character, we start seeing men acting increasingly in a childish and cowardly manner. By that age, their aversion to what they call nagging has piled up that high. They're afraid of you. They were never enthusiastic sharers of their honest feelings before - not that it matters, they can simply say "I meant it when I said it but I don't feel that way now" if you try to hold them to their words - but now they can't even face your direction if you're pointing out what they don't want pointed out. Well-seasoned narcissists can smell confrontation from a mile away and hit the road long before you even start feeling the first cuts of neglect.

The aftertaste of finding yourself at the business end of a narcissist depends on what kind of moral compass they operate with throughout the journey that ends in a gut punch. The shallow narcissist, easiest kind to spot, has no principles, and simply rewards a high prettiness-to-noise ratio with sparkly expensive things. It's always a fun day when you discover that your value to them has nothing to do with who you are and everything to do with how much you increase *their* value. The conservatives only care how well you walk the fine line between lady-like and provocative. You must simultaneously never give anyone a reason to doubt your morality, but get every other male in your vicinity fantasizing about you at all times, if you want to please him. The proud owner of the hero complex follows a specific set of rules that establishes his position as the man - namely through providing, protecting, refraining from physical violence, you know, whatever floated daddy's boat - and demands to be thanked profusely and handed full credit for every single thing you have and are. Dare to claim that you played a role in their achievements and see what happens. The artistic kind will say everything you'd like to hear with top-notch sincerity, that is if you can catch them again. Either way, it's a capture-the-flag game for power. Apologies and acknowledgments are off the table. And every needle and stick poked into the black box to pry it open is to be severely punished.

Under the circumstances established by this highly poisonous dating pool, I believe I have reached a new level in the realm of communication with narcissistic straight men. As it's more realistic, at this point, to give up hope that I'll find a partner who will care for me the way I'd like to be cared for, I might as well grab my validation from negative reactions. They're plenty, after all. You start smelling fear in their anger. You can tell by their resentment that you deprived them of attention. You hear in their shaming that they're jealous of you. You can see in their outrage that you trashed an image that they desperately needed to maintain for themselves and the world. You sense from their discomfort that they feel threatened and would like their power back.

A girl moves 10,000 km away from her birthplace and comes back home after struggling for the better part of a decade. Most of the time away is spent directly under the protection of a love interest who's stepped up to be a provider, coincidentally the same period that she spent the most depressed. Following the dissolution of this arrangement, after walking around long enough with the double sting of having failed despite the consistent support, the girl somehow becomes increasingly aware of the few modest badges of accomplishment she's been collecting. She tastes pride again. She finds it in herself to walk tall again. She starts shaking off the lethargy, the incompetency, bit by bit. She even starts to develop a taste for showing off. The girl takes to art, immediately gets hoisted by an artist, gets left brokenhearted and inspired as hell. The rush of creativity is so exhilarating that she doesn't even mind the hurt.

She starts creating things of her own. And one day she can create well enough to put her memories, the way she likes to see them, on exhibit. She leaves the boy out of it. He's removed from one of the memories. A bold choice, given he'd played the role of provider so well. It's not exactly her style to flip off an important figure so publicly, but the girl just couldn't bring herself to give credit to someone who refused to give her credit for anything. This dude could compete in the Olympics if stonewalling was a sport. He could do it forever with stunning consistency. He can go on effortlessly until you don't feel like a person anymore. She doesn't like the reminder that she trusted him with so much. Or that she bent so many of her important life decisions for him. She doesn't like to think about all the time and resources on staying with a person who thought so little of her. She prefers to focus on the people with whom she truly connected, those she loved who loved her back, the roads she walked and the trees she saw every day, the moments of warmth that she witnessed. She knows that the boy was there for a lot of it. She knows he kept her alive for a long time. But she doesn't like who she was with him or how she feels in his company anymore, hasn't in a long time, and has withdrawn from it. But of course, he hasn't noticed. Faced with his removal from her memories, he gets very upset. Stating that he'd had enough of her crap one last time, he burns all bridges and slams the door on a decade long entanglement. Despite this being his signature move, pulled many times before, the girl is surprised. She thought they were both aware of where each other stood. Then she gets upset, too. This was his final stance, his final act, one last time of cutting her off without giving her a chance to reply to the accusations or considering any possible explanations of what's happened other than her being a bitch. Against her better judgment, she calls the newest dickhead in her life in a moment of vulnerability, and after only a 10-minute phone call, she feels much, much worse. "You need to stop expecting things from people. We're all just apes pushing the button that gives us pleasure. Why did he even see this? Why didn't you remove him from your followers list? You need to draw boundaries." The reigning dickhead has offered zero insight, yet managed to pile on by implying that the inner turmoil she felt was completely her fault. Throw this one out. He's obviously the latest issue of the same shit subscription. She resorts to treating the wound with gentle numbness and rough music. Fogginess brings clarity. In a passing thought, she can see herself in the boy's damage and she can find her recognition in his reaction. She couldn't be the woman of his dreams, but she sure had become his nightmare. It's likely the highest praise she'll get from him in their lifetime, and probably the only one.
