---
layout: posts
title: "price"
date: 2024-06-18
permalink: /posts/24-06-18-price/
summary: "The heart is still beating to the drums of yesterday."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 304
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
If you want to take away a writer's words, wipe their life clean. Replace it with a blank canvas on which their fears and longings can run rampant, untethered, never amounting to anything, never arriving anywhere. All social constructs in which joy, frustration, intrigue, and sorrow can brew - gone. Conflicts and struggles that gave way to ingenuity, heartache that led to epiphany, now irrelevant. All those friends collected through hardship, each, at some point, the only beacon of light when there was nothing but grief on the horizon, now tiny pictures on some screen. All purpose dissolved. One day, you're somebody, in the context of a life that doesn't exist the next. You get a fresh start. But your heart is still attached to yesterday. It's still beating to the rhythm of the drums from last night's ruckus. Hell of a price to pay for.. what, exactly? I walked a million miles for a dream that felt so close I could feel its warmth on my face. I wasn't exactly acing it, but the view was nice enough to let me think that I was going the right way. But uncertainty is not your friend when years go by and survival is on the line. The road got rougher. I grew wearier. I got a gnawing feeling that I was going farther than I could come back. A harrowing warning, echoing, getting louder, was telling me that I needed to save what I had for the journey to return. So I swallowed my pride, turned my back on the product of my prime, and marched my sorry ass back to the start. Now it's time to face the music. I just hope I'm not so behind and ill-equipped for this new scene that I'm doomed to mediocrity for the rest of my days.
