---
layout: posts
title: "oku"
date: 2024-03-01
permalink: /posts/24-03-01-oku/
summary: "Turkish is serious business."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 326
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
I wonder, increasingly more often lately, whether I'll be able to reconnect with my mother tongue.

I'm yet to discover why I didn't make a proper attempt at writing until after I started living my life in my second language. English, it seems, gave me a less judgmental playground where the rules are more flexible, a place where I could safely fall on my face. Looking silly is part of the fun. Turkish, on the other hand, is serious business. You need to hold your ground without ever lacking poise from day one. But I should want to write in Turkish, I should be looking forward to reading more Turkish books, more classics, digging into its rich history, its origins. A writer couldn't ask for more from their native tongue. One hell of a language to explore, Turkish is. Born in Asian steppes to nomads, raised by the Mesopotamian civilizations, fertilized by the salty winds of the Arabian peninsula, enamored with the French, vooed by the Mediterranean breeze, relentlessly teased by the Balkans, and endlessly squabbling with the Greek. Not unlike its alleged distant cousin Japanese, Turkish is not to be taken lightly, despite its recent scandalous affair with modern English. It has an abundance of gravitas. It intimidates me. And I'm off my game, now more than ever. Sentences form in my head in reverse order after a decade of living in Latin syntax. My native vocabulary is disintegrating, and my sentences sound unnatural like a badly dubbed movie. At this point, I remember the romance of its nuances more than I remember its actual form. But I'm not awfully worried. I know how fast human brain can adapt, I've seen my fluency restored in less than a month before. I suppose what I'm really afraid of is that everything I write in Turkish will sound obvious and mediocre.

Why I have this fear in regards to my own native tongue is beyond my comprehension.
