---
layout: posts
title: "gentle giant"
date: 2024-10-27
permalink: /posts/24-10-27-gentlegiant/
summary: "Boy, I would've married you."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 2232
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
The instructor shows the theory, the methodology, the application. He even uses a website I've seen before to visualize how it all fits together. I'm familiar with all this. I know how much time and work this takes to learn and digest until you can make a living out of it. Because I've spent a lot of time with someone who was dedicated to their craft hard enough to become a researcher in this field, and they told me about their trials and tribulations every step of the way with sparkles in their eyes. Which is why instead of excitement and motivation, I feel dread and exhaustion. I don't have sparkles in my eyes. I don't have that much time, and even if I did, I'd much rather spend it on other things. The challenge is too great. I need smaller ones - I want to get started, have something going even if it's small, see an opening for an improvement of reasonable proportions, and feel animated with the possibilities, eager to make it happen. I don't want to force motivation, I want circumstances to generate it for me.

I've lived too long, is what I'm saying. I don't have unlimited time and energy anymore to spend on every little thing I've been advised to invest in just because I wanted to learn a new skill. I'm acutely aware of my resources running out. I've tackled too many challenges and experienced too often the dread of watching things wither and die before they could bloom because of the shortcomings of dead-eyed petty people. It would be easier to come to terms with this being the fact of life if I hadn't also witnessed a handful of other endeavors fulfilling their potential and becoming something that is every bit as marvelous as I'd imagined they could be. I've called so many places home that now I'm doomed to see everything in contrast. If I'm going through a phase in which I feel lonely and bored from time to time but don't want someone in my space constantly, I long for the time when I lived with a companion who shared my needs, and my heart breaks all over again over the series of events that took away my perfect home. Sometimes my self-image takes a hit and I just want to climb into bed, curl into a ball, and pull the cover over my eyes. Happens frequently enough - people treat me like I don't matter, or I'm overcome by how indifferent the world is to my troubles, or I'm suffering yet another blow from the post-apocalyptic scene that is the 30+ dating world. And when that happens, my despair is heightened as I can't help but be reminded of the times I've been held by someone tight enough to drive all doubt out of my heart. When I'm going stir-crazy trapped in a world obsessed with power games, I remember how I broke all the rules of the game when I met this guy, and he said fuck the game and loved me anyway.

I met him at a friend's birthday party. As soon as he said hello and left, I turned to my friend and asked "Who's *that*?" We talked the whole night, and I failed miserably at playing it cool. The third time I saw him, he came over and stayed with me throughout Christmas.

Two years later and half a world away, I live with the shadow of a gentle giant beside me, day in, day out. I spend most of my waking hours in the supersized hoodie he gave me. I told him that writing about him was too hard, but that was just a shorthand for the knot in my throat that was too complicated to explain.

So this one is for the only man who knew exactly who I am, and loved me with no contingency plan.

You were undeniably gorgeous. One knowing smile with your chin up and your eyes narrowed, and I could drop anything to kiss you all over. You had bigger muscles than I thought anyone could maintain without dedicating their lives and careers to it. I didn't even have to look your way to see if you were ready before I jumped into your arms, put my arms and legs around you, and wrapped you with everything my momma gave me. You could lift me like I was nothing. When I put my head over your chest, the steady beat of your heart, the heaviness of your arms around me, and the warmth of your embrace made me think that even if the world had gone haywire, at least I had one place where I'd always be safe and warm. I knew that you would use your strength for me and never against me. I knew that you would only gaze at me so intensely and touch me without reining in your power to show how much you wanted me. And my body came alive when you grabbed my flesh so hard that it hurt. Even when it hurt, I loved you for not holding back. I ache over your absence every day. I crave your energy by my side. You moved like a bear. Quietly, absentmindedly, blissfully unaware of your strength and all the places you traced honey with your fingers when you made breakfast. The messes you made simultaneously astonished me, infuriated me, and amused me to no end. Now that I can't have it, I want it back. Given my neurotic complexion and your mental steadiness that could balance an entire psychiatric ward, no wonder why you called me *chinchilla*. When I was anxious and stressed out of my mind, on the verge of breaking, you took me by the hand, put your arms around me, and danced with me. It was more of an unrhythmic sway than dancing but I eventually gave in, smiled, and calmed down. Being in your presence brought me peace. You always had deep, complex thoughts swirling in your head. If you weren't talking to me about them, I could still hear your brain humming. When nothing was troubling you but you were too silent and your eyes stared at the distance, I knew you were really tired and didn't want to tell me. You thought I'd be disappointed if you wanted to spend the little time we had sleeping. When I asked you about your thoughts, it was as if someone turned up the volume mid-sentence, it made no sense. I'd have to spend 10 minutes asking you questions just to figure out the topic. You looked great dancing, but only if you weren't trying to look great, only when you acted like you were being silly to cheer me up. Your voice was deep, rich, and musical in your native Portuguese. I would stand outside the room to listen to you speak when you were having a conversation with another Brazilian. I lived to hear your booming *Mufasa* laugh. It only came out when you didn't expect to laugh, so I kept trying to surprise you with weird observations. You were so kind. If you weren't there when I needed you, I always knew that it wasn't because of your lack of trying. Just like I knew, the whole time we were together, that you could run rings around me in most intellectual arguments if we had them in Portuguese. But you would rather argue in English and lose than make me feel bad about not having learned the language of the country in which I had lived for almost a decade. And still, you complimented me on my debating skills after losing. "I'm a lawyer, how do you keep winning", you would say. And then I would tell you all about engineers.

If I hadn't been shattered into a million pieces with one abandonment after another for putting my faith in the wrong people, maybe I could have embraced you back instead of squirming to get out of your arms. If I hadn't invested all my youthful energy in the wrong fights, maybe I wouldn't have gotten stuck on a treadmill that left me with just enough time and energy for coping mechanisms, but never enough for sufficient self-care or a big change. Then maybe, I could've taken your advice when you urged me to be healthier instead of explaining myself on a good day, lashing out on a bad day, and laughing at your face on a worse day. If I wasn't in the midst of the hurricane that took over my life after all the misguided choices I had made, maybe I could be ready to receive and respond to a love like yours. But I was, and I couldn't, and there we were. The purity of your affection offended me after mine went extinct about a decade and several ordeals ago. Sometimes your energy and health brought me sorrow because I'd wasted mine. You didn't have the means to shelter me from my reality or to keep the ground from falling out from underneath my feet, and I didn't have the heart to burden you with such a monstrous responsibility. You had your whole life ahead of you. You walked your own path, and you did it brilliantly. You had every right to pick your own battles, pay the price of your own mistakes, take up your own burdens, and go after the life you wanted. Maybe you didn't mind giving me your prime when I only had a wreckage to share with you, and maybe you didn't care about what you'd be missing out on because you didn't know, but I did. I'd had my share of dancing to the rhythm of my own drum, and I knew better than to take that experience away from someone, let alone from you. So I had no choice but to keep you at arm's length, keep to myself, and rely on my terrifying habits to avoid relying on you. Those destructive routines that I desperately tried to keep in place like a band-aid on a stab wound were all I had until I could get myself to where I had continuous access to a lifeline, so that maybe I could take care of myself one day. And I paid for the journey to return by giving you up, alongside everyone and everything else I had by my side. I did what I had to do, and I'd do it again. But don't you for a second think that I don't know what I've lost. I feel nothing but that loss in most of my waking moments on most days.

If only I had met you when I could stand strong… Boy, I would've married you. You were the only man whose silence lulled me into complacency instead of terrorizing me, and whose inner turmoil carried me like a river instead of beating me up against the wall. You didn't back down from the writer in me, you enabled her, you nurtured her, you encouraged and cultivated her. You made me feel strong and beautiful for being her even when I was at my bitchiest. I was a female writer with you, growing fiercer by the day. You're one of the reasons that I still am. That's the goal, isn't it, being with someone who doesn't chip away at your core, who doesn't corrode your essence over time, doesn't put you down, but loves you for it. I would've made it my life's mission to learn everything about you and make you happy. I would've mastered Portuguese just to argue with you. I wouldn't have minded cleaning up your messes as long as you didn't mind my yelling at you for making them. I would've learned to laugh when you threw your affectionate insults my way. I would've stopped smoking, I would've started running, I would've settled down, and even considered raising a family together, to live the life you wanted by your side. I could do anything as long as I knew you'd be there to speak softly with me, asking me about my troubles and smiling at me from the depths of your beautiful brown eyes. I would've given up the chase in a heartbeat for you, the adventure, the thrill of changing countries, switching careers, the chance to start over waiting around every corner. I would've even come to terms with being away from my family permanently so that we could have a serene life living in a casa, having our friends over for churrasco on Sundays, and spending holidays with your family. It would be an easy decision. No one would be worth it more than you, not even close. But who's to say you would want all that? Who's to say you would even fall in love with me if I wasn't falling apart all the time, if I weren't so restless and broken? That's the shitty fact of life - you don't end up with whoever is the most worthy, you end up with whoever comes along at the right time. That is if you're lucky enough to end up with someone at all. Still, I doubt I'll ever shake the feeling that I said goodbye to my last chance at a love that could've really been something at an airport check-in line.
