---
layout: posts
title: "salt"
date: 2025-03-21
permalink: /posts/25-03-21-salt/
summary: "Bonding over shared trauma."
collection: "ragged"
wrdcount_original: 841
wrdcount_quote: 11
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
It's coming up to almost a year since I came back and I finally started to get back feeling. I've even started remembering some of the reasons that compelled me to move back. Not that I'd forgotten their names, but their weight. Happy spring.

From my current operating frame, I can see how much I needed to be a part of a clan again. For almost a decade I could only have scattered allies. Not that they weren't significant - they did make the unbearable bearable - but apparently, I'm more of a clan person. Death and sickness have been plaguing my clan's eldest members lately. Within ten days, two of my extended relatives died, and another had to go under the knife. We keep getting hit. When I talk to any relative, there's concern in every voice and a reserved sadness on every face. Not fake ones, either. Reinforcements run into place after impacts. Those without a job assume the role of personal assistant around the critically hit, e.g., spouses, children, siblings. If all their needs are already attended to, the ones still without a job can make themselves available as pressure valves to the main caregivers. That's me. This is how much I can contribute at the moment, and that's alright. We all do as much as we can, and that's what's important. As long as someone's problem is everyone's problem. I finally have an answer to that question I used to ask myself when I lived on my own in a small windowless room in São Paulo: How long would it take for someone to notice if I were missing, injured, or dead? Right now, not very long. Having to ask yourself that very question is the price of getting away, not that a traveler would ever be caught dead admitting to that.

The other thing I now realize that I missed is hard to explain. Problems tend to be a lot more *in your face* for the average citizen here. If you're lucky, you're always trying to get around the outrageous obstacles and inconveniences posed by the system, with which a lot of people in the world don't have to deal. You keep your head down, try not to attract the attention of the wrong crowd, try not to complain by reminding yourself that many other people have to deal with a lot worse. If you're not that lucky, you hassle, you scrape for meals, you live in constant debt. Or maybe you're truly fucked, you take one wrong step and your whole life blows up. Shit is hitting the fan in Turkish politics, again, and we're bonding over our shared trauma, again. The opposition is being taken out of the game one at a time, each with an alleged non-political reason. It's a totalitarian regime being its most authentic self. As the promising leaders, respected journalists, revered historians, and talented artists behind bars are slowly outnumbering the free ones, social media platforms and fundamental communication apps are taken down for 40 hours with no official explanation. Despite all our experience, despite knowing all that we know, we watch the shattering of our illusion that we'd had any power over our lives. That particular trauma was shared by a way bigger clan. This time, it led to an eruption. Turkey is locked in nationwide protests for the second time in my lifetime. Gen-Z on the battlefield are holding up signs that salute those of us who were in their spot 12 years ago and recreating our moments in the sun, echoing our outrage and grief. I know there will be a lot of people on the street tonight. I can go and run with them, chant and scream with them, expose myself to tear gas, plastic bullets, pressured water, and the risk of being taken to custody, even arrested, alongside them if I feel inclined to do so. What I'm getting at is that there are things to fight and things to fight for here. It has a weird feeling of substance to it. It gives the precious little joy and freedom left at hand more depth. It lends beauty to ugliness in a weird way. I guess it's somewhat like salt, the absence of which can completely ruin an otherwise perfect meal.

And somehow, getting a better sense of the mechanics of my current life made me feel more connected to my scattered allies across the globe. I can appreciate them better than I did when I was there. Because now I'm not some sickly and hungry stray. My clan has nourished and pampered me back to health. I can offer something back. We still keep each other in the loop, share experiences with each other, and even argue. That's Sal. He's the one who argues. Only Sal can find an opportunity to argue with me over being argumentative vs being a good conversationalist amidst an exchange about the political explosion happening around me.

<span class="text-body-quote">"I like how I can annoy you 10 thousand kilometers away."</span>  
"I like how you can annoy me 10 thousand kilometers away too."
