---
layout: posts
title: "chestnut"
date: 2025-01-21
permalink: /posts/25-01-21-chestnut/
summary: "Green and yellow traded for blue and gray."
collection: "coda"
wrdcount_original: 795
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
One fine morning, you receive a text from your friends. They want to meet to go to a festival, or a churrasco, or something like that. The form of celebration doesn't matter. It's usually a subset of music, drinks, food, and dance. There is no end to excuses for getting collectively bombed before the sun goes down. You had every intention to behave. You've already patted yourself on the back for planning to eat a healthy meal, stay away from alcohol for a bit, and catch up on chores. Yet, suddenly your day looks up. You catch yourself planning your outfit before you even know you made up your mind to go. You still mumble *I really shouldn't* while you're calling a ride. You arrive, you greet everyone with a quick hug and a kiss, and someone hands you a beer. The sunshine is abundant. The company is good. The first string of notes as the next song begins, lighter than a bird's flounce, and as pure as its joy, sparks something unexpected. It's a warmth and a motion in your soul, of which you didn't know you were capable. The crowd shares the sentiment. Their energy washes over you. There is a smile on every face. Nothing bears down on your shoulders. You barely feel the weight of your clothes, since, at this point, it suffices to cover enough skin to meet the criteria for public decency. And that's already a very relative definition in Brazil. It's a sea of flesh and bright colors, gently waving. You can just sip your beer and swing in the sun to the rhythm of the drums. Once they come in the song, you won't be able to stop yourself, anyway. You didn't know being alive could ever feel this good. You can't recall why it was so hard just yesterday.

The summer is permanently behind me now. The lush green, yellow sun, and warm showers are gone for good. They've been traded out for the murky waters of survival. What comes next is a sobering roughness. For starters, it's mostly gray. Blue, we have plenty, but you won't see it unless you're lucky - or rich. Yellow and green are available seasonally, but only if mother nature is feeling generous. Black and white are the seagulls and the crows. Seagulls take to the skies in the morning with a deafening ruckus. Crows take to the skies as the night falls, because purple skies aren't ominous enough. Old, few-story-high trees veil tired unremarkable buildings through their intricate web of naked branches in the silvery winter sun. They tower over me as I walk past them, calling on me to stop, to just stop, being trapped inside my head, and remember how insignificant I am, that nothing matters as much as I think. I close my eyes, sigh, and carry on. Weathered people make the most of the small corners they can get, but you'll need to pay close attention if you want to see their little world. It's as easy, and hard, as noticing a snow globe on a top shelf from across the room. Nobody invites attention to their most sacred space. Keep your eye above the street level, and you might get to spot a balcony turned into a garden of Eden. Those who don't have a corner to tend to, or have anything left to spare, live in a constant battle to numb the mind. Their sacred space has receded as far as their bathroom. At 2 am, most windows are dark, but some of them flicker with TV lights. City of cats. City of insomniacs. City of opportunists, con artists, entrepreneurs, and chain smokers. Easy-fix seekers. There are mouths to feed and (self)destructive coping mechanisms to sustain. Life's too short for real fixes, its shortness being owed, in no small part, to the price paid for the said easy fixes, but mostly to the problems they're supposed to fix or distract these poor souls from. It's as if a performance artist wanted to bring to life the illustration of a snake eating its own tail, but didn't want to be too obvious about it, so they built Istanbul and put it on display. A real-life *Macondo*. We even get visitors in millions every year, coming from all over to see the show. I don't blame them. It's a hell of a show. Never fails to enchant. Not so magical if you're one of the performers, though. Don't I feel lucky, having the keys to leave this cage. Surely that's a good plan. Surely, I can survive in the sun, if I'm born to survive nine months of winter per year.

Or so thought the first person who tried to grow chestnuts in the subtropics.
