---
layout: posts
title: "in the dark"
date: 2025-03-12
permalink: /posts/25-03-12-inthedark/
summary: "That morning on Rua Changril치."
collection: "ragged"
wrdcount_original: 900
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
I woke up this morning to news from Clem that my late aunt's husband had died. She was headed to our hometown with Dad for the funeral. I wasn't close with him or anything, we'd hardly exchanged a few sentences in my whole life. But I'd grown fond of him after seeing how well he took care of my aunt throughout her battle with cancer, until the end, albeit after decades of neglect. He was like a tale of redemption to me. And now he was gone. One more relative of Dad's, gone. And yet another is unconscious in an ICU somewhere with terminal cancer - Dad's uncle, but due to their relatively small age gap, more like a big brother. I'm worried about Dad again. We all think that the reason for his collapse into an autoimmune disease is that he got severely depressed after his sister and mother had died weeks apart, a few years ago.

For some reason, every time I struggle with the possibility of losing someone I love to sickness or old age, every time I'm afraid that I'll have to watch someone waste away, my mind goes back to that morning that I found out about Dad on the second floor of the house on Rua Changril치. After waking up to find the messages Mom had sent, I got up, crossed the hall, knocked on Kai's door, and told him what happened. As I was talking, I heard my fears in the words coming out of my mouth and in the tears that were rolling down my face. I remember the warmth of the tears. I remember feeling startled by that warmth because I hadn't realized I was crying, and I was surprised to hear what I was saying because I didn't know I felt that way. I told Kai that the whole time I was living away, I'd been assuming that I'd eventually go back to be there for my family, as the harder years approached. That I wasn't ready for those days to arrive already, and I was not prepared for those years away from them to be my parents' last good ones.

It's puzzling that I think about that morning, still. A time that I was utterly clueless. Dad got better, I came home, and I got to be by his side. When he got sick again, everyone was calm because they'd been through two episodes that were way scarier, and they knew the drill. Everyone was prepared but me. I never got to support my family when they went through the thick of it. I was having a great time back in Rua Changril치, blissfully unaware. I thought it was hard for me in a different way that they were out of reach and I couldn't do anything to help. But I was sorely mistaken. This, being immersed in it here and now, knowing about all the details, being involved in all decisions, coming to terms with all possible outcomes, is, in fact, the real hell. It's so fucking hard. I came to realize that the reason I still think about that morning might just be that I feel ashamed about my cluelessness, and simultaneously long for it. And of course, there's the guilt I feel for longing for it.

I thought coming back here would be a transition. It's not. Transition would imply that I change my location, but stay on the same timeline. When I came back, I found that I'd fallen behind. I thought I'd gotten away with all the fun I had and the irresponsible choices I made, but it turns out I was just putting off paying my dues. It's like I'm paying with interest now, and it's taking forever to catch up. It's like a crash course on all the aging and suffering that happened in my absence just so that I can reintegrate and navigate my way through the mess. It's also like exercising your legs after a long period of couch potatoing away your evenings, because the heaviness of hearts is in the air and the water around here, and if you're out of practice carrying that burden on your shoulders, it'll crush you. You'd think that I'd also get to catch up on good news. But the unique situation of being here in this country, at this particular point in history, means that the only truly good and lasting thing that can happen to anyone is seizing an opportunity to get out, which renders the effort to reconnect with those with good news pointless.

I don't think I'll ever feel as happy here as I did in Rua Changril치, not in the most obvious meaning of the word. I probably won't get that "fuck, being alive feels amazing right now" feeling again. But that's okay. I knew this would be the case. I made this decision for a reason. I did say to myself that I'd rather be with people who love me and need me on a sinking ship than have no one to catch me if I fell off the top of the world. I did come to the conclusion that I had my fill of joyrides and highs and was running low on substance and meaning. So here I am, following through. I am a woman of my word, after all. Dad taught me how to be that.
