---
layout: posts
title: "little boxes"
date: 2025-03-02
permalink: /posts/25-03-02-littleboxes/
summary: "Rushing to put a tick next to the nearest dumbed-down role."
collection: "ragged"
wrdcount_original: 0
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
We were sitting in front of the TV. Things felt normal enough for us to watch TV in our usual setting: Mom had taken her place to my left on the corner of the L-couch, all set to fall asleep shortly after the beginning of the film, Dad to my right with one of the cats sitting on his extended legs, my laptop on my lap, my hand on the mouse to work on my drawing, and the other cat between me and Dad, resting her back against my right thigh. I basked in the comfort of knowing exactly what my evening was going to look like. I think Dad was feeling it too, and that's why he was in good spirits. He saw a preview of what looked like a crime film, he asked us if it would do, we said yes, and he clicked play. Unfortunately for Dad, it was not a crime film. He only thought it was because of the scene in the preview, which involved blood on a woman's face as she was being escorted out of a courthouse. Fortunately for me, it was an <span class="annotated" data-note="“El lugar de la otra” / “In Her Place” (2024)">artsy Chilean film</span> about a secretary of a judge who works on the case of a woman who murdered her lover in public. The secretary, weary of her loud house and her demanding family, takes to spending her afternoons in the murderer's house, while the murderer, who happens to be a very talented writer and openly defies the institution of marriage, is in prison. The secretary finds herself addicted to how she feels in the writer's house, and unable to break the habit. She feels unburdened and unattached. She feels like a person while she's there, not just a wife and a servant. She walks around the writer's house, wearing her perfume, listening to her music, taking baths in her bathtub, until eventually she starts exploring her artistic interests, taking photos with an old camera, and even starts seeing herself as an artist. When the film was over, I was feeling much better about my life as a single and childless woman navigating a highly patriarchal society, and Dad was frustrated because he never found out why exactly the writer killed her lover. I teased him saying he was getting good at picking chick flicks after watching so many with Mom. He felt cheated, but we were laughing. We all needed a night like that.

I told my parents I'd go home for a bit to clear my head after the week I had, I said I'd be right back. The next day, I was back in my home, in my element. In the evening, I talked to an old friend from high school. Rex had lost his father only a few weeks ago, and ever since he told me about it, we'd been trying to find a time when we were both free for a long talk on the phone. We talked for an hour and a half. He gave me the blow-by-blow of his father's passing and the waves it incurred in his family within the weeks after. I told him about Dad and the things I struggled with regarding his condition. I asked him about the thing Luke called anticipatory grief. What Rex told me in response both shook me to my core and brought me peace all at the same time. He told me there was nothing in the world that I could do to prepare for my father's death. He told me that what I would feel when the moment comes is like nothing I could possibly imagine. Which sounds scary but it actually helped, because hearing that my intuition was right gave me some of my sanity back. He also told me that all the things that would need to be handled in case of his passing, financially, bureaucratically, logistically, would be handled, whether by me or someone else. Because there's no other choice. He told me that if I find that I have to rise to the occasion, I would. It might set the bar against which I measure all the future hardships of my life, yet, somehow, I would. He said he even found, to his surprise, that he was no longer feeling the anxiety he used to feel when faced with situations that used to challenge him. "I buried my father", he said. "I jumped into that hole in the dirt and lowered his body to the ground. How hard can anything else be?"

Our conversation brought me relief. It turned my anxiety into a weird calm of immersing myself further into my new reality. I think I might finally be letting go of that urge to prepare for the things that haven't happened, a compulsion that's been there since I can remember. It's going slow. It's happening bit by tiny bit, very gradually, but I can feel a shift. And I don't think I could have achieved that if I hadn't come back. Because you can't say "we'll deal with it when it happens" if there isn't a "we", and if the consequences of those scenarios would be catastrophic without pooling together the resources of a family.

That Saturday, I went to a social meeting in my neighborhood for foreigners, although it's worth noting that most of the attendees are still Turkish. The only difference is that they speak English. I'd been to two of these events, and it was already getting repetitive, so I wanted to shake things up a bit and invited Uri to go with me. Uri is Clem's friend from long ago. He's been a good friend to her for over two decades and he eventually became a friend of the family. He's been like a protective older brother to me since I came back, and he's already like an uncle to Isa. Clem had a feeling that he's been a little off lately. So I called him up and suggested that he come over on Saturday, leave his car near the house, walk to this event with me, and spend the night at my place. That way, he could drink as much as he wanted and not worry about driving back, since he lives way out on the other side of town. I thought he could meet some new people, cheer up a bit. And as no one lives around my neighborhood after it's been thoroughly gentrified in the time I spent away, I thought people at the meeting would be more likely to live close to Uri than to me. I figured he could make a new group of friends who live near his house, maybe even meet someone he liked. We met up, had a drink, headed to the event, spent the evening talking to random people, danced a little, and walked back.

There was this dude from these meetings. Despite showing clear interest in me, I hadn't heard a peep from him after we exchanged numbers, except when he asked me if I would be at the next meeting. When I saw him in the next meeting, he was all cuddly again, and the weeks after, absent again. So I finally gave in to my curiosity and asked him why he didn't talk to me outside of the meetings. He immediately snapped into defense and said, "okay okay, I'll text you, why you tripping." I was put off for good. This is why I'm exhausted with straight men, especially with those from around here. They don't hear the words coming out of my mouth, they hear the intention that they assume is behind them. They skip over the first layer and go straight to the layer under it. Which would be fine, if they didn't chronically misdiagnose the layer under it. This miscommunication, as annoying as it is, could still be manageable if they didn't jump right into defense. Maybe if they bothered to check with me what they think before taking up arms, I could simply tell them that they read the whole thing wrong. But people don't do that. More specifically, Middle Eastern straight men don't do that. They speed through layers of conversations, they skip over reasoning and concluding, they think they know everything about everyone and they never challenge their thinking. I'm so fucking tired of being subjected to their stereotyping. I'm so frustrated with those dumbed-down roles they have in their heads reserved for types of women. I wonder how many breaths have been wasted on this basic-ass bitch throughout his life as people said words that he never intended to hear because he was rushing to check the nearest box that resembled them. I wonder how many sentences have completely bypassed his faculties on their way to feed a snap judgment. Fuck you dude. You don't know me. You probably don't even know the first thing about most people you claim to know. If it were *my* gender on which the entire world is cracking down right now, I would at least consider a little self-reflection. If it were *my* demographic with which the collective thinking is slowly but surely becoming disillusioned, I would try a little less jumping to conclusions and more listening. Or you know what, carry on. There is a large-scale male loneliness crisis coming to be as we speak, and I would hate for women to have a reason to entertain the choice to settle for mediocrity. That's you - mediocrity.

In hindsight, I think he was just plain dumb. The next day, Uri and I both spent the first half of the day dealing with our respective hangovers. Mine was better than I expected, his was worse. I complained and he moaned our way through it as he kept going back to sleep while I kept pushing coffee, water, and aspirin. By the time we could feel more or less like human beings again, Clem and Isa had arrived at Baba's house for the Maslenitsa lunch. We got lucky to stumble upon that particular Sunday to be hungover: Crepes were endlessly presented with sweet and salty fillings. Eventually, we left Isa to her babushka's care and the three of us snuck up to my house for coffee and grown-up talk. We discussed the events of the evening before, I talked about my frustration with the ape-like level of understanding that Turkish men have when dealing with women, among other things, and that I was losing hope that I'd ever have a group of friends again, friends who chat, hang out, have fun, and have each other's backs, that it seemed as if the only social gatherings deemed appropriate at my age were stuck up dinner parties with married couples or playdates. Uri and Clem replied in unison that casual friendships were over in Turkey. They both agreed that men and women weren't becoming friends anymore, that everyone had an agenda concerning either picking romantic partners or getting laid, women favoring the former and men the latter.

Having confirmed my worst suspicions, that got to me, I have to admit. Setting aside my family, meaningful friendships and meaningful work are the two things on which I hope to build my home. Everything else is just things. For most people, having a steady partner and having kids with that partner is the point of life. I opted out of that. My parents aren't going to be around forever. The events of the past week made sure I knew that. And I know I'm an important person in Clem's life, but she has her own family, to which I'll always come second, understandably. If I don't have friends who count, what do I live for - work? It hit me hard. I was drifting out at sea for a couple of days there. I went to sleep and woke up having lost all my drive for a few rounds. It wasn't pretty.

But I suppose there is something to that whole darkest-of-the-night thing. After enough sleepless nights riding the worst-fears-coming-true express, you start seeing through your own mind's bullshit and its grip on you loosens. Eventually, I remembered that I should take other people's opinions with a grain of salt, and my faith in myself with a little baking powder. Eyes that seek different things see different things. Their position and outlook color their glasses. Sometimes you just need to get your news from another source or sit by another window. And sometimes you just need to put your arms around your legs, close your eyes, scrunch up your face, catapult all the swear words you know up into the air, and breathe your way through it. You're never gonna make it through if you freeze where you stand. Walk with your eyes closed, if you must, but move nevertheless. When you open your eyes, you might just see that you're almost there. Just because you haven't hit the milestones you wanted to hit yet doesn't mean you've done nothing. Maybe you've been collecting the building blocks this whole time.

When I make an effort, I can see the tiny progress I make from yesterday to today, last week to this week, and last month to this month. And if I really strain my eyes, I can take a peek at a possible future. I see myself taking the ferry with a few girlfriends to see a museum, I see my phone chiming with a text to invite me for a beer, I see a small group having a conversation under string lights on the terrace with the last of the drinks in hours after midnight, late enough for the neighbors to threaten to call the police. Maybe it won't be exactly as I envision - it never is - but I think I can do it. I can make a fulfilling life happen. If not me, then who?

The next day, Mom called and told me that Dad's platelet counts are already going back up. He was responding very well to the treatment. And that was that, until the next episode.
