---
layout: posts
title: "craving"
date: 2025-03-25
permalink: /posts/25-03-25-craving/
summary: "On the unique pairing of the brain and the effect."
collection: "ragged"
wrdcount_original: 663
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
People move on a spectrum when it comes to how they react when they find out someone is on the spectrum. We all know the stages: First, we don't know anything about it, so the slot in our brain corresponding to the word is still at its default setting. That means it's been filled with the visuals of what we see in the mainstream media associated with that word. That used to be howling, unresponsive children. Stupid women in yoga pants. Musical geniuses. Occasionally, a personal anecdote of something we heard from someone who knew someone whose cousin was autistic. If we face the fact that we have no tangible information about the said person on the spectrum in this story, even though we decide that we now know everything there is to be known on the subject anyway, that leaves only the tone. The tone of the story is grim and scary, therefore, it must be bad, which is just enough to support the shabby hypotheses we put together using the pseudo facts we collect. Then life goes on, and we inevitably find ourselves in a conversation in which the data at hand isn't enough to make a solid argument, or we see something that challenges what we think we know, and we get a feeling that we might be missing something. We can only hope for that spark to lead to a compulsion to learn more. Take an interest. Find or stumble upon other angles in media and art. Ask questions and talk about it more. I can't assume to know what's on the other end of this scale. I think everyone has their own scale. I can only sustain the opinion that any point we go beyond the default setting is a victory. And when enough people do this, it might even move the default point beyond howling children, yoga pants, and musical geniuses.

We have similar scales for many social concepts. Racism. Queer people. Sex workers. HIV. Mental illness. Homelessness. But one subject in which I reckon the needle is unlikely to ever move from the starting point is addiction. And if we're being honest with ourselves, I think that's because we all judge people for being addicted. We don't question why they find so much relief when they consume a substance, least of all whether they had any power over the circumstances that shaped them into a person who yearns for such relief. We only suspect, or find out by experience, that we don't need that relief. But there are all sorts of things to which one can get addicted, each with a unique pairing of the brain and the effect. Just because you don't crave one kind, doesn't mean you won't crave another. So the athlete on steroids shames the pothead, the shopaholic shames the gambler, the smoker shames the alcoholic, the alcoholic shames the narcotics addict, and everyone shames methheads and heroin junkies. In the meantime, pretty much no one thinks to shame the serial monogamist who is clearly addicted to oxytocin and gets their fix by falling in love and bailing after the honeymoon phase is over. Each brain is unique. Maybe one is chock full of trauma and needs to forget. Another needs to lose control and be the life of the party. Some are just too tightly wound and need to slow down. Others are simply low on juice and need help lighting up the house. But we don't see the brain, we see the actions and the shortcomings. And every time we do, we all secretly pat ourselves on the back for not having that vice, while most of the time we just have a more socially approved one. Even when we know our own poison, we feel confident that we have control over it and others don't, and it's because we're strong and they're weak. Maybe it is so. But do people get to choose their strengths and weaknesses, I wonder?
