---
layout: posts
title: "pebble"
date: 2025-06-02
permalink: /posts/25-06-02-pebble/
summary: "On unlearning caution."
collection: "ragged"
wrdcount_original: 460
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
I have allowed my existence to be defined from a frame of rejection and grief. I only know what I don't want. I'm only certain of what hurts me, what traps me, what robs me of my essence, my freedom, my dignity, my self-esteem. While it looks like a smart way to live, avoiding such people and circumstances, I haven't merely avoided my demons. I've been changing my direction when I see them coming my way from a hundred meters away. I've backed up further and further until I'm locked in a cell of my own making.

I'd like to unlearn some of this caution. Some of my most fulfilling experiences happened when I dove into the unknown, eyes closed, no preconceived notions of what might happen. Those encounters might not have satisfied me in every sense: Maybe I'd found the perfect companion to a routine that was far from perfect. A job that was only rewarding at the time because everything else was a hot mess, and I'd begun to think that I had nothing worthy to offer. Someone who showed me a good time even though they were the absolute worst as a partner, but our time together was priceless because I was deprived of fun and a decent courtship for so long.

The common element between all the encounters and affairs that I now remember as flawless is that I didn't pursue them. I chanced upon them. I had them for a minute, then they were gone, and now I can think of nothing but how to get them back. That makes no sense because I hadn't pursued them in the first place. I can't let go of my compulsion to chart the territory to avoid past disasters, either. Between my tunnel vision of what no longer is, and my hyperfocus on all the things I would never let be again, I'm walking the sightless walk. I'm obsessed with all the wrong things.

There was a time when I didn't listen to anyone, I didn't even listen to reason. I just did what I felt that I had to do. And I want that spirit back. Not necessarily because it's the way to the best outcome, but because it's the only way worth living. Who knows, I might get to hold another token of bliss in my hand yet again. Like one of those pebbles you find at the beach that are of an impossible color, smooth enough but somewhat wobbly, so endearing that you can't possibly let it go. I'd like to stand there in the sun with my hair wet and feet bare, shielding my eyes from the glimmer reflecting from the sea, and stare at the child's treasure in the palm of my hand.
