---
layout: posts
title: "swirl"
date: 2025-08-21
permalink: /posts/25-08-21-swirl/
summary: "Abandoning chaos."
collection: "ragged"
wrdcount_original: 918
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
The surface of the water is silky and gently waving. A few meters below, the lines in the sand resemble a desert on a minuscule scale. Everything in between is crystal clear for tens of meters before the colors unite in a wall of deep blue. The mountains surround the bay, and the children squeaking with delight are far away, all the way by the shore. It's a peaceful world. I must look peaceful in it by the way I float and smile with my eyes closed. But I don't feel so much tranquil as a perfectly sealed vessel of conflict. I listen to the polarized forces in me clashing silently as I contemplate abandoning a philosophy that served me for so long.
I surrendered myself, body and soul, to the deities of chaos some years ago. The unexpected, internal and external, proved to be the most powerful force acting on my life. It rose up through the ranks and took the reins, demanding in return that I ditch all that was nonessential and throw all anchors. I sacrificed all long-term plans to my freedom to jump on any passing wind strong enough to carry me away. Down they went like sandbags. It only made sense. You can plan all you want, make blueprints from now till the finish line, leave room for error, sketch multiple routes for the unknown, only to scrap them all when fortune and misfortune strike you alike. Or in my case, when I wake up one day and decide that I no longer want the life I worked so hard to build, and skip town.
Submission to chaos is knowing that you can't generate your own wind. At best, you can slightly alter the course as you ride the one provided for you by the universe. That requires all your wits to navigate. You can't afford to be illusioned. You have to bid farewell to your black and white goggles and appreciate the complexity of all the interactions that you once thought were so simple. No rule is so universal or absolute that it's above examination, no way of life is the only way, no being is pure good or evil, no one is free of pain, and nothing lasts. If the hidden layers of reality are your bread and butter, you can't opt out of bearing the grim or acquiring the taste of bittersweet.
I've always assumed that whoever wanted to walk alongside me would have to share my worldview. But after finding out that my worldview can only be embodied in a male body in the form of a sociopath, freak, troll, or a narcissist, and I'm unable to feel romantic attraction towards women, this assumption gradually evolved into accepting that there was no such person worthy of walking side by side and I would have to keep walking alone or look for a non-romantic companion who doesn't laugh at the idea of growing old with a friend. I've come to find solace in my acceptance, even felt liberated for being in low demand and moving in obscurity, and gotten comfortable in my ways, convinced that I'd finally hacked my pattern. Because the sheep falls for the shepherd dog, every time. It's in her nature. But then she runs the risk of falling for a wolf in disguise, which seems to be the case more often than not. And there's only one sure way to remedy that: Stop following, and start leading. Even if no one's following, lead your own way. Whether you'll join the wolves or the dogs or stay solo after that is anyone's guess. Do it regardless.
Yet there they are, eyes peering at me, assuring me that it's all fine. That I can hold onto the awful truth, contain the lonely darkness, and he won't try and stop me. That if it gets too rough, he'd be ready to lend a hand with optimism and visions of happiness, of which he, in contrast, possessed plenty. That this combination can offer both of us a balance. But I don't know if I can share my center with another. It took me so long to get my demons to coexist with my hope. Finding my place in the world and standing up on my own was so daunting a task that it nearly took me out. That's why I'm compelled to protect my center buried deep within, and keep my swirling mess of thoughts and feelings and half-baked ideas from spilling out. The swirl keeps me upright. I'm scared that exposing it to another of the opposite nature will compromise the feeling of being me, and instead of balance, I'll taste nothingness. I'll dissolve, I'll disappear, and it'll be all him. Again.
But maybe I don't have to share my center. Maybe it's arrogant of me to think that he needs to get acquainted with every little worm dwelling in my mind. Maybe I can remain a sack full of unpredictable outcomes while he sits down next to me, quietly, looking over sometimes, gently smiling, and holding my hand when I seem in pain. Maybe there's a way to balance here that won't demand that I give up my instability with which I've lived for so long, and spent so much time learning how to counteract, that I'd lose my grounding without. Maybe granting entrance to the happiness that showed up unexpectedly is also a way to honour the deities of chaos, even if it means abandoning their teachings.
