---
layout: posts
title: "23 years later"
date: 2025-07-06
permalink: /posts/25-07-06-23yearslater/
summary: "A deranged train of thought from ants to apocalypse."
collection: "ragged"
wrdcount_original: 1349
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 16
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
A couple of days ago, I finally took action against the ants colonizing my terrace.

There was a large pot hanging by the ledge and a couple of smaller pots filled with a type of succulent, one that is very prone to mealybugs, apparently. This remarkable plant can somehow rot and thrive at the same time. New branches kept sprouting from every opening in the soil over the past year, and come spring, a pink cloud of flowers materialized out of thin air at the crown, all the while the leaves were heavily infested and visibly rotting. I'm not much of a gardener. I can keep plants alive if their will to live is strong, and maybe propagate new ones from a branch or a leaf if I get lucky. But I don't know what I'm doing. I'm good for water, fresh soil, and removal of dead leaves, but in defense — they're on their own.

The first time I noticed the line of ants leading to the large pot by the ledge, I smiled. They didn't hurt anyone, they didn't go after my food, the plant was already beyond saving, and I was happy to host life. But the more you leave ants be, the more they increase in numbers and venture out, I've learned. They didn't stop at the infested plants, they started wandering off the ledge and onto the floor, the table, the chairs, and the people sitting in the chairs. I was starting to get pissed. Finally, I made up my mind to throw away the infested plants before the ants could come into my house. I shoved the large pot full of soil and plants and ants into a garbage bag, all in all, large enough to carry with both arms and as heavy as a small furniture. I carried it through my house, down four flights of stairs, and up the hill to the street bins. My arms barely made it all the way because barring the occasional bag and grocery carrying, I don't work out my arms. I barely work out at all.

As I dumped the contents of the pot into the large smelly street bin, I was explaining myself to the ants, who probably didn't know what hit them. Imagine that one moment you're carrying food in a tunnel, working your shift, minding your own business. In the next, the very fabric of your reality disintegrates. Gravity suddenly changes direction, and you find yourself transported to an unfamiliar place alongside all your friends and fragments of your home. I felt the worst for the ones that remained inside the pot, clinging to the sides. They would get to go back, but to what kind of life? Their home, friends, and food had vanished before their eyes. Would they find a new home? Would they be accepted in a new colony? Would they be the "new kids" that everyone hates? I thought that the ants at least deserved to hear the reason for being evicted in such an undignified manner:

<div class="left-line">
<em>I'm sorry guys. I didn't want to do this. I thought we could coexist. I thought you would somehow be aware of the terms for living in my space. I was happy to have you there, I didn't mind keeping the rotting plants that provided you with food, but you should have stayed in your section. I didn't think you would populate so uncontrollably just because you had a bounty of resources. I thought you knew better. I can't just let you take over my territory. You have to go.</em>
</div>

As I was feeling sad but unapologetic, talking to myself - because let's face it, the ants didn't have a clue what was happening, let alone understand my words - another thought occurred to me: I wonder if that's what mother nature would say to humans if she could talk. Or maybe she is talking, but we're as devoid of the ability to comprehend her words as ants are of comprehending mine. I, for one, can certainly feel her fury.

The weather has been freaking me out lately. I recall Istanbul always being windy, but it used to be humid. A decade ago we were complaining about it every summer, *it's hot, too hot, but it's the humidity that kills me*. But the wind I've felt on my skin for the last two summers is not humid. It's unrelenting, hot, gusty, dusty, and bone-dry. I'm almost expecting sand to blow with it. Apparently, it's possible to change the climate behavior if you kill all things green and replace them with concrete long enough. Just goes to show that you can do anything if you believe in yourself and stay focused throughout the long con. If you shove Islam and corruption down people's throats for two decades, you can turn a heavenly oasis into the Arabian Peninsula. You can exploit a hard-working nation to poverty, a fertile land to barrenness, make thieves out of god fearing people, and bully a democracy into autocracy. I would have been impressed if I weren't downright terrified. Because if this manmade disaster on our hands wasn't bad enough, the nonstop earthquakes and wildfires might just break the camel's back. I know what this wind means. I know what it's been up to. It's the kind that makes ashy hills from green mountains. And sure enough, all social platforms have been ablaze with panic over the forests burning down for weeks.

This morning, as I was scrolling through my feed and feeling overwhelmed with the public outcry over the government's negligence and incompetence, my eyes caught a familiar name between the doom posts. It was the trailer for *28 Years Later*, the latest film in one of my favorite franchises. And what I found out after watching it resonated with my sentiments regarding the country's predicament in the most bizarre sense. 

The trailer's production team has hand-picked <span class="annotated" data-note="Rudyard Kipling's 1903 poem “Boots”, first published in The Five Nations, performed by Taylor Holmes, 1915.">an old recording of a haunting war poem</span> as the central theme for all its promotional content. True to form, it's another unorthodox yet powerful choice, making the trailer blood curdling and the film iconic before it even came out. This effect is owed to the fact that the poem is written in a rhythmic form to capture the sight of marching boots, the repetitiveness of which threatens to drive infantry soldiers mad. A genius move to set the scene for an open field asylum.

While I may not be able to imagine what an endless war against zombies would do to a person's mind, I think we all feel somewhat familiar with the struggle not to lose one's mind under a prolonged existential threat. While we're not engaged in a global war to save humanity, we have to choose between our humanity and our survival every day. The apocalyptic feeling doesn't stem from abandoned cities but from the authorities abandoning all law, constitution, morality, and civility. Most of us are not fighting with our bodies, but our minds are surrounded on all fronts by a seemingly undefeatable enemy, and it might just be dragging us all to insanity. We look each other in the eye and struggle to see anything left that is still human. We see eyes burning with blind rage, glowing with greed, dull with numbness, quivering with terror and helplessness. We don't know who we should fight first, or for whom we should fight harder. We don't know whether we should strive to save our forests from fire, or our homes from earthquakes, or our land and seas from being looted and poisoned, or our street animals from getting slaughtered, or our politicians and university students from prison and torture, or our children from rapists and child labor exploiters, or our women from their homicidal ex-husbands, or our doctors from homicidal patient relatives, or our people in general, in all social classes, from getting robbed of all their assets, freedoms, and dignity.

I wonder whether the studio would consider releasing the film with a slightly different title in Turkey, if we asked nicely. As "23 Years Later."
