---
layout: posts
title: "asymptode"
date: 2025-04-16
permalink: /posts/25-04-16-asymptode/
summary: "Found myself at the deep end."
collection: "ragged"
wrdcount_original: 807
wrdcount_quote: 0
wrdcount_translated: 0
wrdcount_capnotes: 0
imgcount_original: 0
imgcount_credited: 0
---
I used to write poetry with dark themes when I was a teenager. I used to love Stephen King novels, songs that fetishize death and beyond, stories about damaged characters who off themselves, wallpapers depicting dark landscapes, and any form of art that explored the subject of pain. I wasn't as keen on fantasy horror with supernatural monsters, although I did occasionally sample the genre, as a girl obsessed with cemeteries is prone to do. But my main focus was on a certain shade of emotional terror. I never quite figured out why I found it so attractive. But if there are other sympathizers out there, we would all have to admit that we wouldn't want to live through that. No one would. We want to muse about it, enrich our lives with it, bleed just enough to create art with; but we would all like to put it aside at the end of the day, put on our comfy clothes, and go to sleep in our warm beds like everyone else. Not unlike those who enjoy being immersed in simulated horror through video games but wouldn't want to be chased by a ghost in their homes.

Well. It just so happens that the last few turns I've taken in life cost me my bearings, and I unexpectedly found myself at the deep end. I thought that my subconscious and I were becoming friends, and friends give each other a heads-up when things are about to go tits up. I was so sure that I had everything under control, "oh I'm having a touch of depression, I think I need to adjust my diet, my body and I have been out of touch lately, I'll just do half an hour of yoga, I think I'm getting too isolated, I just need a little more social contact and I'll be fine, oh thank you I feel much better." And then came flat days. Having trouble seeing the point of leaving the bed. Noticing a slight clutch in the chest when I think about how long it's been since I last had a job. Do I have good reasons for my current state? I believe so. Do I feel down? Not really. Did I lose hope? No, not at all. Do I still feel joy over small things? Absolutely not. But once a certain discomfort in certain areas of my body has joined the party, and brought with it the dread sliding into a panic that I know too well, there it is - my old friend, hypochondria. Now that we're all here, we can proceed into the nightmares that make one afraid to fall asleep, inverting day and night.

In hindsight, the financial anxiety and the fear of indefinite unemployment I'd been experiencing may have been a little more intense than I gave them credit for. But I had no way of knowing how hollow it was under the crust on which I'd been walking. I couldn't have foreseen that the fractures forming under my steps would open to nothingness. One more step brought about the collapse, and my fears materialized in my dream as vines that spread over the inlets of light in my house, slowly cutting me off from life and turning my home into a tomb. I saw the world continuing to spin and eventually forgetting about me. I desperately searched for light with my eyes closed. Everything I'd been running away from gathered and intensified as one mass of growing darkness and buried me alive. It was like the horror movies at the end of which unspeakable horror finally shows its face, except it didn't have a face for me to see, but it had a grip for me to feel. It got me. When I finally broke through the sleep paralysis with the taste of terror still in my mouth, I knew there was no point trying to sleep again anytime soon.

In such passages of my life, I seem to recall a particular calculus lecture from my university years in which the lecturer described a concept called the asymptote. A line that is so nearly parallel to a curve, they would only touch in infinity. I think it's because I feel that my mental state is, and always has been, insanity-adjacent. If I lived forever, I would eventually get there. But not today. Today, I see eye-to-eye with it. It's traveling toward the same point that I am, going at the same speed that I am. Theoretically, it should never touch me. But it always appears as it would in the next moment. I know my state of mind is temporary. I know nothing, good or bad, lasts forever. I know things will change, one way or another. But there is somewhat of a taste of infinity in self-doubt, is there not?
